When you look at the labor market data,
there's certainly some stuff to be
concerned about.
>> The inflation data are also going to be
pretty elevated in the next couple of
prints. So, it makes it a really tough
backdrop for the Fed.
>> I think the bar for them to cut has
actually increased in the last few
months.
>> I do think it's time for the Fed to
really be pivoting to why are you
waiting as opposed to the well, we can
wait. The fat put is still there to come
in and sort of save the day if you will.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> From New York City for audience
worldwide. Good morning. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance alongside Danny
Ber. I'm Ann Marie Hordern. Jonathan
Faroh and Lisa Brahmovitz are off today.
We're coming into the week with stocks
looking to bounce back after Friday's
postpayroll selloff. The weakened
unexpected data and large downward
revisions prompting the president to
fire the head of the Bureau of Labor
Statistics. Plus, Fed Governor Adriana
Cougler resigns, giving President Trump
an opportunity to shape the Fed earlier
than expected. The president said he'll
name names this week.
>> I'll be announcing somebody for the
filling of the uh person that left, but
I think a Biden appointment. And she
left early. And I think she left because
she agreed with me on interest rates.
We'll be announcing a new statistician
sometime over the next 3 4 days. We had
no confidence. I mean, the numbers were
ridiculous.
Meanwhile, the fresh tariff rates
announced last week go into effect
Thursday as some countries are still
hoping for deals. Danny, good morning. A
fresh dose of uncertainty this Monday
morning.
>> Oh, it's going to be such a quiet week.
An Marie, it's uncertainty and kind of
the absurdity of it is that we were just
at all-time highs on stocks at this
point last week. Instead, what we have
now is the data is starting to look
weaker. Both jobs and by the way, ISM
was really weak last week, too.
Credibility at the Fed being eroded once
again, credibility of the data being
eroded once again. And tariff pressures
reigniting all of that happening with
stock valuations near all-time highs. As
Lori Calverine of RBC says, angst has
returned for this market. Oh, then you
have other people like Mike Wilson and
Morgan Stanley this morning. investors
should be buying of this potential stock
pullbacks where buyers of this dip
Friday may all be may all we get to the
downside for now and they still see
liberation day as the major and durable
low for equities. Well, also part of the
problem is is on an index level tech is
still doing really well. We learned that
from earnings banks are stu still doing
really well. What happens when some of
the more cyclical type industries start
to hurt? What happens when you start to
get the PNGs of the world flag that
consumers aren't spending as much across
the income spectrum? At any point, does
that even read through to the indexes?
It's something that's really difficult
to grapple with and why you can have
very two different views of where we go.
And what happens when the market is
starting to worry about confidence with
this idea that you can just fire the
head of an independent agency? Kevin
Hassid over the weekend, the president's
top economist. What we need is a fresh
set of eyes over at the BLS. The
president wants his own people there so
when we see the numbers they're more
transparent and more reliable. Neil Da
though says don't shoot the messenger.
This is often the case with Trump that
he identifies a real problem. We know
that this is a problem. The data is
getting more difficult considering
response rates have gone down and just
their funding has gone down. The problem
is is that he identifies the wrong cause
and thus makes it political and
undermines confidence. you could say
around the edges. Does this not at least
argue for higher risk premium in US
assets?
>> Well, when it comes to futures this
morning, Danny, they're bouncing back
from those lows that we saw on Friday.
No drama, as Jonathan would say as I sit
in his seat this morning. S&P 500
futures up 6/10en of a percent. Mike
Wilson, I keep going back to this. This
really feels like the tone of the
market, at least for this morning, even
though we have that uncertainty, saying
investors should be buying of any
potential stock pullbacks. Coming up
this morning, Ed Yardeni of Yardeni
Research with stocks rebounding. Terry
Hannes of Pangia Policy with President
Trump reshaping the Fed and the Bureau
of Labor Statistics and Michael Gapen of
Morgan Stanley as a softer payrolls
report fuels rate cut expectations. We
begin this hour with stocks looking to
bounce back after a weak payrolls report
fueled rate cut expectations. Ed Yardi
of your Denny Research writing traders
might be starting to take profits before
going on their August vacations. They
may also be betting that September could
be a weak month for stocks. Ed joins us
now. Ed, let's start with the growth
picture and just your reaction to
Friday's labor market data, especially
those massive downwards revisions for
you right now. Is it a cause of concern?
>> Not really. Not the way the market took
a dive. And uh I'm I'm happy to see that
uh the market may very well rebound
today. Uh the reality is uh we did have
a lot of uncertainty during May and June
when we had these big downward
revisions. Uh honestly, it seems to me
the downward revisions actually make
more sense given that if I was an
employer during May and June, I wouldn't
have fired anybody, but I wouldn't have
hired anybody given all the uncertainty
unleashed by what I call Trump's tariff
turmoil. And uh so yeah, all in all uh
th those numbers didn't surprise me all
that much with the benefit of hindsight
obviously. Uh and then of course uh we
did see that the labor supply the labor
force uh has been uh kind of flatted
down since the beginning of the year. So
this is a combination of uh weakness in
demand related that may be temporarily
related to the turmoil on tariffs that
should I think uh be abate over the next
few months and at the same time we may
actually have a shortage of of workers.
>> Well the president didn't like the jobs
number on Friday and he fired the head
of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Do
you think that undercuts market
confidence?
Well, this is uh a very bad situation.
Uh the president, in my opinion,
shouldn't have done that. I agree with
what uh your colleague Danny just said,
and that is uh he should be throwing
more money at the Bureau of Labor
Statistics so that he can do a better
job sampling
workers and the unemployed to see what's
really going on here. firing the
commissioner uh does uh does raise some
questions of the confidence that people
are going to have in the data especially
if he puts in a loyalist as a
statistician which he's likely to do. So
what do you do then, Ed, if you get a
loyalist put in as a top statistician
there? Do we still trade on the data? Do
you take it more skeptically? Do you use
private measures more? How will it
change how you interpret labor market
data?
>> Well, yeah, I I think uh right now
there's a lot of skepticism about the
labor market data, the the employment
data, I should say, uh because of what
you mentioned before, the um the fact
that response rates have gone down. And
look, the economy uh is uh moves a lot
faster these days and I'm not sure the
statistical techniques that the BLS has
move as rapidly. So I I would throw more
money at him rather than become partisan
partisan about it. Uh so all I'm saying
is the data was already suspect for
other reasons. Uh and we've all uh all
of us economist types uh have uh looked
at all the employment data both private
and and public. Uh, so I um I I think
nothing dramatically changes in terms of
the way the markets look at data.
>> Even so, Ed, nothing dramatically
changes, but Friday did demonstrate a
vulnerability in the market with that
huge move in the front end. You could
even say what happened with copper
prices demonstrated a vulnerability.
Given that we've had this slow meltup to
the summer, you're still bullish, Ed,
but are you concerned about some of
these short-term blips that traders
aren't properly hedged for? Well, you
you you quoted me saying that uh a lot
of traders, a lot of investors are going
on vacation. They certainly don't want
to be exposed to the volatility of the
market, at least not from a trading
perspective. So, I think we're going to
see a lot of that kind of activity uh
slow down. I think it already has slowed
down. Maybe it started that on on
Friday. Some people said, you know what,
I'm going to take I'll be taking
vacation for the next week uh two weeks.
Uh let me just close my books here. Uh
and then of course uh there is a
seasonality issue. Uh Septeers have a
tendency to be weak months. So I
wouldn't be surprised if this market
just kind of chops around here in August
and September and maybe we make uh some
sort of low or bottom in October for a
year-end rally.
>> Good luck to anyone who's trying to take
a vacation with all these headlines
coming out. Ed, also this week we have
this new deadline when it comes to the
tariff rates on Thursday. today. Do you
think the market is ready to basically
put the trade war behind them?
>> I think the markets would love to put
the trade war behind them and I I really
thought that by now the president would
really be uh in the sort of in the same
camp because he's going to start
focusing on the midterm elections next
year. uh he does love to talk at these
large um uh conventions uh these large
rallies and in in sports stadiums and uh
he's going to need to do that uh in
order to shore up uh his uh Republican
uh party during the midterm elections.
Uh and he's got to really start to focus
on just f, you know, saying what has
been accomplished and avoid doing things
that might backfire on the midterms. So
yeah, I I think the other issue, of
course, is the courts are probably about
to rule that he doesn't really have the
legal authority to do what he's been
doing. I don't know if it's going to go
all the way up to the Supreme Court. The
appeals court has 11 judges, and if all
11 of them rule that way, which is
possible, the Supreme Court may not take
it up. So, uh, we we may be entering
even a more volatile period with regards
to what's going on here on the tariff
side.
>> But you don't expect the tariffs to go
away, do you? because there are other
tools they can use to enact them.
>> There there are other tools, but they're
uh they're not as uh quick or efficient
as uh the emergency act that he u called
upon that the courts may rule. He just
doesn't have an the power to declare an
emergency when there doesn't seem to be
an emergency. Uh but um again uh I think
he and the administration may conclude
that it's time to uh downplay the whole
thing and and move on.
>> What does that mean for corporate
America, Ed? Some of these companies are
just starting to wrap their heads around
what it means for them. Or you have the
likes of Amazon last week who said we
just don't know what's going to happen
moving forward. Is there enough clarity
after Friday for corporations to move
forward with things like spending and
hiring plans? I I think we have to see
what the courts rule and how the
administration responds to that. Uh the
the reality is if we just take it at
face value that the president wants to
uh basically achieve a 15% tariff across
the board on everybody and raise
something like $4500 billion. Well, the
corporate income tax raises about $600
billion. Uh in effect, the the tariffs
are a tax and they're a direct tax on
importers, businesses. Uh and so it is a
negative for corporate profitability. Uh
and again uh we've heard some bad news
out of GM and Ford anticipating this,
but other companies say we just don't
know enough to really figure out what
this is going to cost us. So it that's
still a known unknown,
>> but still a little bit more clarity in
terms of the bottomline rate for
tariffs. We do have a weakening jobs
report on Friday. Do you think the Fed
is in position to cut in September?
Well, the market certainly thought so on
uh on Friday. Maybe today there'll be a
change of opinion. I think uh on Friday
we got uh the probability of a rate cut
according to the CME Fed Watch tracking
tool uh going up to a 90% probability.
Then over the weekend that uh you know
that actually simmer down by the end of
the of Friday down to 80%. Uh I wouldn't
be surprised if uh there is no rate cut
on September because we still have a a
batch of data up ahead here uh
particularly on the inflation front. We
did we are seeing that the tariffs are
having an impact on inflation. A lot of
people saying
it's it's not there but the reality is
if you look at durable goods inflation
durable goods prices typically fall.
That's what they did before the uh the
pandemic. Then they had that inflation
spike, but then they came right back and
started falling again and now they're
rising again, mostly because of the
tariffs.
>> Ed, thanks so much for your time this
morning. Great point. Ed Yardi of Yard
Denny Research. Let's get you an update
on stories elsewhere this morning.
Here's your Bloomberg brief with Yhier
and on. Hey,
>> good morning and Marie. President Trump
is set to announce a new Federal Reserve
governor and Bureau of Labor Statistics
head in the coming days. He told
reporters he has a couple of people in
mind to replace Fed Governor Adriana
Kougler. His pick might be in the
running to fill Fed Chair Jay Powell
spot when his term ends in May.
Meanwhile, on the trade front, President
Trump and Prime Minister Mark Carney are
expected to talk over the coming days
after the two countries failed to reach
a trade deal before the August 1st
deadline. Canada's minister in charge of
US trade said he thinks there is
opportunity to strike a deal that would
bring down some tariffs.
And staying on the trade front, Swiss
stocks dropped after traders there had
their first opportunity to react to
President Trump unexpectedly slapping a
39% tariff on all imports from the
country. The new tariff announced last
week leaves Switzerland with one of the
steepest levies in the world. That's
your Bloomberg Reef and Marie. Thanks so
much. We hear from again in 30 minutes.
Up next, awaiting President Trump's
picks.
>> So, we'll see what happens. But I we
just found out that I have a open spot
on the Federal Reserve Board. I'm very
happy about that.
>> Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy joins us
next. You're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]
Good Monday morning. A lot of
uncertainty into this market. As the
president said, we're going to get new
names when it comes to the head of the
labor statistics that he fired on
Friday, that commissioner, and also a
fresh seat open at the Fed now that he
has a chance to put a new person in
there. Something that we know the
administration is very excited about.
What we have in futures this morning
bouncing back from Friday's low. Edgard
Denny we just caught up with said that
market reaction Friday was overdone.
We're going to see a lot of seasonal
volatility and Mike Wilson said
investors should be buyers of any
potential equity pullbacks under
surveillance this morning aing President
Trump's picks.
>> We'll be announcing a new statistician
sometime over the next 3 4 days. We had
no confidence. I mean, the numbers were
ridiculous what she announced, but that
was just one negative number. All of the
numbers seem to be great. We'll see what
happens, but we just found out that I
have a open spot on the Federal Reserve
Board. I'm very happy about that.
>> Here's the latest. President Donald
Trump sharing plans to name new
appointees to both the Federal Reserve
and the Bureau of Labor Statistics
following the resignation of Fed
Governor Adriana Cougler and the firing
of BLS Commissioner. Joining us now,
Bloomberg's Mike Shepard. Mike, what's
the reaction in Washington from the
flurry of news we got Friday?
>> Well, in a word, Emory, you could size
it up as dismay. Even from some
Republican lawmakers, we heard from uh
Republican senators Cynthia Lumis and
Tom Tillis, that they were concerned by
this. And Cynthia Lumis even went so far
as to say, "Look, if the president
doesn't like the numbers he's getting on
jobs, it's not the statistician's
fault." And it comes, Emory, at this
time as we are seeing or at least
beginning to see uh signs that the
president's tariff policies are
beginning to have an effect on the
economy. We're seeing flickers of
inflation in key consumer categories.
And then we had the Friday jobs report
and the revisions that moved the
president to the point that he ousted
the head of the BLS, Erica McIntoer, who
was appointed by President Joe Biden,
but was widely hailed as somebody who
was nonpartisan and was committed to the
data. And her predecessor, William
Beach, who was appointed by Donald Trump
during the president's first term, even
stepped forward to defend her over the
weekend. He said that the move risked
undermining BLS and the credibility of
the agency and the work it does. And he
also said there was no grounds for it.
At the same time though, he said that
there were a lot of committed and
dedicated civil servants at BLS who will
continue to do their jobs and do so free
of political influence. So, it'll be
interesting to see how whoever the
president decides to put into this job
will interact with that part of the
bureaucracy and whether those uh people
who were producing the data and the
numbers will bend to the new head of the
BLS's will.
>> Mike, thanks so much for that.
Bloomberg's Mike Shepard out of
Washington to continue the conversation.
Joining us now is Terry Haynes of Pangia
Policy. Terry, you right over the
weekend Trump now accelerates reshaping
the Fed like he did the Supreme Court.
But when it comes to this Cougler seat,
does he go for the person he wants to be
the new Fed chair, or does he just put
someone in there that he was planning to
for that extra seat he he likely would
have at the Fed?
>> Good morning, Adrianne. Danny, uh the
the bottom line, I think, is that uh
Trump sees the opportunity to reshape
the Fed now in a way that he didn't
before. Uh he's now got the Cougler seat
in his pocket, which he didn't. uh he'll
make a decision on that, but he's also
got the PAL seat coming up uh in summer
and uh and he's even got a potential
vice chair coming up before the end of
his term. So, I think he's going to try
to figure out ways to uh to push the
narrative and reshape things in the way
that the Supreme Court got reshaped by a
few different picks. Now, whether he
uses the Cougler pick to put the shadow
chair in uh or not, I think depends on a
couple of things. one two different
Trump instincts, both of which we've
seen demonstrated. One is making the
biggest splash and the biggest push
possible. Uh the other the other
instinct is, you know what, I'm going to
like make a smaller splash uh cement my
you know, my initial counterweight here
and let the uh and let the battle go on
among potential chair candidates for a
little while longer. Can we play out the
former scenario, Terry? If we get an
appointee who is very obviously
political, what is the strength of the
institution of the Federal Reserve to
try to fight back against that? And to
what degree might it see some bends?
>> Well, I think there's two um uh two sets
here. Uh one is kind of ven diagram
style sets. one is kind of the political
and malleable and the other set is uh
candidates that are best for markets and
best for fed independence. I think you
get a uh I I think you get a confluence
of those sets to some extent. Uh but
that's going to take a lot of uh input
both from Congress and I think crucially
markets uh who are going to say look you
know we what we need here is we need
somebody uh with a lot of gravitas and a
lot of the ability to frankly burnish
the fed the Fed's credentials burnish
the Fed's independence and ability to
keep making these decisions. Uh so
that's one reason I think why it may why
it may take a while. It's easier to put
the political loyalist in if you're uh
in the Cougler seat. Uh very much as
Cougler was, I think, with with Biden.
Uh if you're going for kind of a lesser
normal governor type,
>> unless unless, Terry, we get a recess
from Congress that allows Trump to make
a quicker appointment to the Federal
Reserve because of those recess
nominations. Do you think that that
could happen?
>> I think that's possible. I think
Congress, the Senate particularly would
council very strongly against that. Uh
the Senate, you know, think about the
broader context here. The Senate is in a
situation now where it's trying to push
through as many Trump appointees as
possible. uh getting a lot of push back
from Democrats who have, you know, long
ago decided that they're going to uh
have to uh have to deny Trump as many
nominees as possible and maybe even go
shut the government down or uh or push
back on spending uh this fall and
winter. Uh in the middle of all that, I
think the last thing Trump wants should
want to do is play into that. And I
he'll certainly be counseledled by
Senate leadership that way. Terry, who's
in pole position right now that you
would bet the president to appoint in
the Fed seat?
>> You know, I think that if the Yeah, I'm
not going to take any public position or
private position for that matter.
Seriously, I'm just name a few names.
>> Well, yeah, I will. I want to be clear
about that. I'm not expressing a
personal preference. But, you know, I
think that uh the
Trump battering the Fed, Trump doing
what he did at the BLS have have a
number of fallouts. One one bit of that
fallout is that since the BLS matter and
him battering Powell undermine his own
credibility on the economy to some
extent. It has to be corrected by by
candidates that have more gravitas. So
what I took from the weekend was that
candidates like Kevin Worsh and David
Balpass I think uh gain gain a little
bit in that and I think some the
somebody who lost a little bit over the
weekend was Kevin Hasset and that's out
of his control but you know he had to go
on television on Sunday and defend the
BLS uh business and uh that only reminds
people that that right now he's a Trump
staffer and that may not be the look
that the Senate wants to uh to put in
the Fed position.
>> How challenging is the Senate
confirmation going to be for the Fed?
>> Well, you know, the the the the
conventional wisdom will be, well, the
Senate's a rubber stamp. They'll they'll
they'll do whatever Trump wants. Uh I
think that's not true. I think the
Senate is uh there a lot goes on behind
the scenes. People have gotten used to
uh trading public barbs and having uh
public strategies go on and people
forget that there's an awful lot that
that that happens privately. the the
private council will be uh look, you
know, we need to get somebody who is in
the Fed position uh who Republicans are
united on because Democrats certainly by
and large are not going to vote for that
person. Uh number one, uh number two,
it's going to have to be somebody that
enhances Fed stature. And anybody that
thinks the Senate's a rubber stamp, any
Senate, uh, has only to go back to Sarah
Bloom Rascin a few years ago to remember
that Democratic Senate stopped a Biden
vice chair nominee cold.
>> Terry, thanks so much for that. Terry
Haynes of Pangia Policy. Danny, the
point Terry really makes though is that
the Cougler seat is now so much more
important. It's not just a regular seat
anymore.
>> Does it become something of a fat shadow
fed chair that we get in? Does it also
mean that Powell stays on or resigns
early? Just how many appointments will
Trump be getting over the next of his
presidency? Just how much is he going to
be able to remake the composition of the
F1?
>> Yeah, it's going to be one we're going
to be watching very closely, especially
as the president said we might get a
potential nominee name this week. Coming
up on the program, Sonia Martin of DZ
Bank with President Trump's new tariffs
set to take effect on Thursday. Plus,
Yah will be back with us for your
morning movers Tesla gaining this
morning as a new incentive for Elon
Musk. You're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Almost 6:30 here in New
York City. John and Lisa are off today.
I'm Ann alongside Danny Burgerer. What
we see in markets this morning, futures
rebounding after Friday's low. Of
course, that low was induced by the
weaker thanex expected labor report and
the massive downward revisions. Of
course, fresh uncertainty given the fact
that the president then fired the head
of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. He
said we will get a new nominee name this
week. Also, some uncertainty potentially
the opening up a seat at the FOMC with
the early resignation of Fed Governor
Adriana Cougler. We are now three hours
away from the cash open. Let's get your
morning movers with Yahira. Hey yhara.
Good morning.
>> Hi Enry. We start with some possible M&A
news capitalizing on the need for data
centers. Take a look at Comm Scope
Holding. Shares are soaring up 41% on
the Wall Street Journal reporting that
Amphenol is nearing a deal to buy its
broadband and cable unit for around 10.5
billion including debt. The move
underscores booming demand for data
centers which rely heavily on fiber
optic cables, key parts of this comcope
unit that Amphanol is looking to buy.
Meanwhile, take a look at shares of
Tesla. You mentioned this one. They are
up 2% on some headlines that just
crossed. The board has approved a new
interim award of 96 million restricted
shares to Elon Musk as a way to
incentivize the CEO. And the board also
saying that retaining Elon Musk is more
important than ever before. And it's a
clear signal from the board that they
want Musk locked in after all those
political distractions and at a time
when they need him most with fierce
competition over EVs and slowing sales
over at Tesla. And the Sydney Sweeney
drama continues. Uh but this time it the
stock is getting a bit. It is up 4% as
the company says that it's standing by
its campaign featuring the actress,
which of course drew criticism by some
over what they perceived as racial
undertones. But remember, this also was
a stock that was caught up in the retail
trade frenzy. So, there might be a
little bit of that going on today. And
Marie,
>> yeah, thanks so much. You know, the
company coming out and says it is and
always was about jeans, but the
president says he likes the ad now
because apparently she's a Sydney
Sweeney, a registered Republican. Poor
Sydney Sweeney becoming a political
figure. I'm sure she and American Eagle
want to put that this behind it.
Although they've given it a little bit
more life by going in on this. I mean,
just leave it alone. Let it dissipate.
I'm tired of it. Let's stop talking
about it.
>> Well, the stock is up more than 4% this
morning. So, they must feel like they've
done something right. On our radar this
morning, President Trump will announce a
new Federal Reserve governor and BLS
chief in the coming days. The Fed
replacement might be in the running to
fill Fed Chair Jay Powell's spot when
his term ends in ends in May. This is
why it's so interesting. As Terry Haynes
was saying, this is not just now a
regular governor's seat. Potentially,
this could be the shadow Fed chair. I
also wonder if they can convince anybody
to come in and join the FOMC unless they
are given that promise that you will be
the Fed chair at some point. Not to
mention Michael McKe writing into us
saying it would be impossible to make a
recess appointment. So for the Fed,
you'd have this really long drawn out
process. Isn't it advantageous for Trump
then to just have the person that he
wants to become the next chair? So, does
that mean you get a fat shadow Fed chair
coming onto the board? And is it someone
who's blatantly political or someone
who's just more dovish? All of that will
make a really big difference to as what
the composition of the Fed will be and
maybe how long Federal Reserve Chair
Powell stays on for his governorship,
whether he leaves before 2028.
>> And if he taps someone like Breitbart's
talking about the fact that Neil Dua
potentially someone they could tap, then
you know they're thinking elsewhere for
the Fed chair. Maybe like a Christopher
Waller. Well, we know Trump has also
been concentrating more on the board. On
Friday, we were talking about Yeah, the
truth social post saying that the FOMC,
the committee should come together and
try to overrule Powell. So maybe he sees
this as an opportunity to completely
reshape the FOMC. If he gets two more
people, that means a total of four
appointees that he will have on the
Federal Reserve. It is more of a
strangle hold over the Fed and where
their policy goes from here.
>> Regime change. That's that's what we're
looking at. Um, elsewhere in Washington,
US Trade Representative Jameson Greer
saying the US and China are quote
halfway there on a rare earth deal. His
comments coming as the trade truce
between the two countries is set to
expire, Danny, on August 12th. Halfway
there. And it's clear that this is the
sticking point. It is clear that this is
somewhere that China has such an upper
hand. Part of the problem with this,
too, and it makes it more difficult for
the US. If you were to say, okay, maybe
this is less of a problem if we can look
at supply chains elsewhere. Where else
has critical earth minerals? It is
places like Brazil. It's places like
India. Places that just got slapped with
very high tariff rates. So this makes
the talks all the more contentious. And
again gives China a really big playing
card coming into this deadline.
>> Massive negotiating chip and it's one of
the reasons why potentially you could
speculate they put those H20 Nvidia
chips back on the table. The Treasury
Secretary told us it was part of the
mosaic of the trade talks from Page this
morning of the Wall Street Journal says
China is limiting the flow of critical
minerals to Western defense
manufacturers with these ongoing
discussions and says one drone parts
manufacturer is saying that supplies for
US military is forced to delay orders by
as long as two months while it search
for these non-Chinese source of magnets.
The problem is to your point, China has
about 90% of this market
>> and this is coming at a time when
military spending is being upped not
just here in the United States but in
Europe and throughout the world. What
happens if China starts to choke the
supply of the rare earth minerals that
are necessary for doing that? Speaking
of rare earths, let's stay in the
commodity space. Oil prices slipping
this morning after OPEC agreed to
another output boost in September,
stoking concerns about a global over
supply as the US-led trade war weighs on
economic growth and energy consumption.
So, it was just a 14-minute meeting. So,
very short for OPEC standards, and I
haven't got a lot of time with OPEC
meetings. Sometimes they go days or
weeks. What happens next is going to be
interesting. You are so right because at
the moment, okay, yeah, oil's weaker
this morning, but only by 1 and a.5%.
The things holding it up is that there
is still demand. We are still traveling.
Everybody got in their car over the
summer traveling somewhere. Everyone is
still flying. So jet fuel is still in
high demand. What happens when that
ends? What happens when the summer is
over and some of that es? That's just
the demand side. What happens on the
supply side? Are we going to see
stricter restrictions, more tariffs,
more sanctions for people who use
Russian oil? It is a quickly changing
picture, which means that this OPEC
meeting, it might be more than 14
minutes in the future. And that's a
great point to bring up because the
president said over the weekend if Putin
does not come to the table for his
self-imposed 10-day truce, which is this
Friday, there could be sanctions, more
sanctions when it comes to Russia. So,
everyone's squarely focused on what that
means for the oil market. Turning to
foreign exchange now, the euro
recovering from recent pressure as
President Trump's 15% tariff on most
exports from the EU is set to take
effect Thursday. Sonia Martin of DZ Bank
writes, "The correction in Euro dollar
has run its course fundamentally. There
is still one major risk factor at play.
The large overhang of the speculative
long positions that could spell trouble
trouble in the very short term. Sonia
joins us now. Sonia, just explain that.
Where do you see Euro dollar going if we
have this speculative long still baked
into the market?
>> Good morning. Yes, in fact, one of the
big problems that we have seen recently
is that we have built this massive
overhang of speculative long positions.
It started around April. So with
liberation day, that's when it really
kicked off. I estimate that the uh
average entry level of these positions
is probably around 110 112. So right now
you could say that they're still quite
comfortably in the plus. But obviously
there is a risk that if EUR dollar
starts to edge lower again that these
investors will lose confidence. And
we're looking right now at about 125,000
contracts that is a quite significant
amount. And what could happen obviously
is as I said if EU dollar does pull back
for whatever reasons then these
investors will start to liquidate at
least some of their positions and that
could accelerate the move. And I think
the critical question would be at what
levels do fundamental investors who
might feel very well or very rightly I
think that maybe levels around 114 are
good buying opportunities when will they
come in and pick up uh pick up the
slack?
>> Sonia, we have a 15% tariff rate when it
comes to the European Union, but who's
to say that's going to last Trump's
entire term? Is there potentially
concern when it comes to the currency
pair that we could even see higher rates
or those sectoral tariffs hitting the
currency?
Yes, I mean the market reaction last
week to the trade deal announcement was
very clear. The euro lost quite a lot of
uh value on Monday uh in the early part
of the week and the the this was because
of that concern. So obviously we have
15% now you could argue that that's
better than the 30% we feared we might
get but what the market is looking at is
the fact that we have now capitulated uh
in front of Trump. So we have given in.
That's the I think that's the
interpretation. And I think the concern
is indeed that in doing so we've
basically provided him with a door.
We've opened the door to more tariffs
and that if he feels like it in a few
months time, 6 months time, who knows
that we might be hit with higher
tariffs. I think that's what the market
reaction was all about. Not so much
about the actual tariff where 15%
obviously isn't great. It's going to
dampen somewhat the outlook for Europe
in particularly the export strong
nations but it's it's not a complete
disaster yet but I think the yet is what
people are worried about.
>> Well the drivers from the start of the
week to the end of the week felt
completely different Sonia because by
Friday you had a rally in Euro dollar
with the dollar's worst day since around
liberation day in early April. How do
you understand what the drivers are and
what is a bigger risk? Is it the
weakening data that forces the Fed to
cut or is it an undermining of
confidence in both the Federal Reserve
and the data in the US?
>> Well, I mean both risk risk factors are
currently obviously at play. But if you
ask me what the bigger risk is then I
would have to say the latter. I mean
weak data is one thing and the Fed could
react by cutting rates and you know a
lot of people have been playing the the
risk of a US slowdown potentially
recession. That's not entirely new. But
I think longer term as when you look at
the dollar and confidence in the dollar,
the much bigger risk factor has got to
be an undermining of confidence in the
Fed. And I mean, as you discussed it on
the program just before, I mean, you
know, Trump now has an opening. He can
appoint someone there or try to appoint
someone there who might also then act as
sort of a shadow Fed chief until Powell
leaves and then might, you know, be put
in a position to replace him. That's
going to make the Fed's job harder.
Definitely, it's going to make Jerome
Powell's job a lot harder. And I think
that in combination of course with the
firing of the head of the Bureau of
Labor Statistics, it all just goes to
undermine sentiment visa v the US
dollar.
>> Sonia, if that hadn't have happened, we
would have been debating just the actual
weakness of the data itself, not the
confidence in it. If we can do that, are
the employment trends worrying enough
that we're likely to get a cut from the
Fed regardless of where inflation comes
in in the next month's data?
Well, I think the problem with the labor
market data is well the problem it
obviously has been generally the more
solid than people feared it would be and
I think now it was a major
disappointment. The big thing that we're
all waiting for when we look at the US
economy is when the big impact of the
tariffs will hit the inflation rate and
consumption and therefore also
eventually the labor market. I mean you
remember a few months ago everyone was
talking about Trump session. Uh a lot of
these forecasts have been revised since
but there's still a lot happening in the
pipelines. I mean these price increases
through the terrorists will have to find
their way into the economy and that can
happen in only two ways. Either it ends
ends up being paid by the US consumer or
it ends up being swallowed by the
companies and both outcomes are not good
news for the US. So that is going to
happen. The question is just when and I
think that you know we're starting to
see some weakness in the data. The US
surprise index that Bloomberg publishes
has been in negative for a while now. So
it's coming but I think the timing is
much more difficult. But it does mean
the Fed will have room to cut rates
further.
>> Sonia, thanks so much for that this
morning. Sonia Martin of DZ Bank. Let's
get you an update on stories we're
watching elsewhere with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yahira. Hey yra.
>> Hi Anmarie. Boeing workers at its
defense plants in St. Louis are striking
for the first time in nearly three
decades. Thousands of machinists walked
off the job after union members rejected
the company's contract offer that would
have raised wages 20% and boosted
retirement contributions. Boeing saying
it implemented a contingency plan to
support its customers. Meanwhile, I
mentioned this one earlier. Tesla shares
are rising 2.3% after the company
announced a massive payout to CEO Elon
Musk. Musk awarded 96 million shares of
restrict restricted stock worth over $23
billion based on the last closing share
price. Tesla's board described the
decision as a good faith payment, saying
retaining Musk is more important than
ever before.
And Texas Democratic lawmakers have left
the state in an effort to stop
Republicans from redrawing congressional
maps. That leaves the state legislature
short of the minimum number of lawmakers
needed for votes. Texas Governor Greg
Abbott has reportedly threatened to
attempt to remove the lawmakers if they
don't return today. That blueberry,
thanks so much, Yahara. Up next,
September on the table.
>> The big picture though, I think, is you
can cut the rate. you can get 100 base
points off this interest rate and still
be above where inflation is tracking.
Would I get that rate down to something
and then see where you are? I, you know,
yes, I think that's a possibility. Up
next, Michael Gapin of Morgan Stanley
joins us. Don't want to miss that
conversation. And you're watching
Bloomber Surveillance.
[Music]
Good morning. Futures this morning
clawing back some of the losses we saw
last week after the weaker than expected
labor data. S&P 500 futures up 6/10en of
a percent. Markets now really starting
to bake in this chance of Federal
Reserve interest rate cut happening in
September. Before the labor market date,
it was at a 40% chance. Right after it,
it shot up to 90%. So that hope um maybe
bad news is good news in terms of that.
Under surveillance this morning, as I
just said, September on the table.
economyy's in pretty good shape and I
think that's really fair. I think
there's some impact from inflation and
productivity that's going to pull it
down with a little bit of an uptick for
tariffs. The big picture though I think
is you can cut the rate. You can get 100
base points off this interest rate and
still be above where inflation is
tracking. Would I get that rate down to
something and then see where you are? I
you know yes. I think that's a
possibility.
>> Here's the latest. This rising
unemployment and slowing job growth is
boosting investor hopes that the Fed
will intervene with a rate cut. Michael
Gapin of Morgan Stanley writing, "Chair
Powell emphasized the unemployment rate,
but the slower payroll pace keeps
downside risks elevated in a September
cut on the table." Michael joins us now.
A lot of distractions coming out of
Washington. I want to talk to you
actually about the data. What did you
make of those revisions on Friday?
So, I think they they now reveal a
picture of an economy where job growth
slowed much more dramatically over the
summer. And the fact that it happened in
May and June came right on the heels of
the Liberation Day tariff announcements
and we heard from the corporate sector
that wow, this is a big change. We don't
quite know what to do. It's making
planning hard. So, I think seeing
employment growth slowing down rapidly
kind of fits that narrative. So I think
it it paints a picture where labor
demand came off pretty quickly and it
what's key then is about at least some
resolution to that story whereas trade
policy uncertainty going forward. We
thought recession risk was elevated
going in anyway. We've all been talking
about if you want to reshape global
trade you're going to have to risk
downside. So I'm not sure that this
report materially changed our view on
that right now. But I think it's clear
that the economy is adjusting to a
period of higher tariffs. Either the
consumer will eat it or corporates will
and if the latter does look for a much
weaker labor market
>> with uncertain with certainty though on
a number of trading partners now and
base case 10% most countries 15%. Can
companies go out and now hire?
>> I think they have to be selective. I
think we we we've the clarity we've
gotten at least what what market
participants will tell you and
corporates will say is well we think
kind of the maximum tariff the ceiling
is lower okay fine the ceiling might be
lower but I think where this lands is
still uncertain so I think the
difficulty in planning remains and I
think firms in general outside of maybe
AI investment are cautious in what
they're doing so I still think it's
right to believe things are getting
delayed capital spending plans and
hiring decisions. So, we would expect
kind of continued modest rates of
employment growth into year end.
Something around what we saw in the July
report itself, 50 75,000 jobs a month is
probably where we are for the time
being.
>> Well, even before Trump came out and
fired the BLS head, there was a real
shock to how large the revisions were.
And Michael, there very well could be a
conversation that we should be having
about how you treat monthly data. Given
just the difficulties in making accurate
real time economic data that comes in
when you look at one-off reports and we
can put to the side of who the BLS chief
is at the moment.
>> Do you need to be looking at aggregate
data? Can you really make decisions on
one month of data? And what does that
mean for the Fed as they try to decide
what to do in September? Well, the the
typical economist response to this is
yes, you do want to look at, you know,
three-month moving averages or something
even longer because with with COVID and
the massive shocks that we've seen to
the economy, the flows are different.
The behavior of hiring and and firing is
is different. So, the signal from any
one month of data has gone down. So, you
want to smooth through that. Um, does it
still mean you can make accurate policy
decisions? Yes. I just think you
downplay one month of data and and look
at a longer trend. You know, we did dig
into those revisions. You you mentioned
they're they're large. They were the
largest downward revision since 1979
outside of CO. So, it's it was about
four to five times the the large the
normal move, right? So, a massive
outlier on that front. In and of itself,
that doesn't really change recession
probabilities. If you put that into
your, you know, your probability models,
the July number matters more than what
the revisions say. So, we would say, you
know, does it really, should it really
change your view on the labor market?
Probably not.
>> Well, there started to be people, Rick
Reer, a Black Rockck among them, as well
as uh Steve Englander of Standard
Charter, who say that should the next
month come in weak again, should we get
revisions again, it could put a 50 basis
point cut on the table for the Fed. Do
you see any validity to that? Is that a
possibility? Well, so if you if you
think it tells you the labor market has
cracked and either we get, you know, ne
I think I think you need negative
payroll numbers to get a a 50 basis
point cut in September. So would would a
50 and if if you got a positive positive
payroll growth in August, but other
downward revisions that showed May was
negative. Well, does that justify a 50?
So I think you you probably need
something like minus50 minus 100 to get
them cutting in uh in September in that
magnitude. Um so it would have to be a
signal that the recession's here. The
tariff rates already too high. We just
didn't know it. Now we know it. 50 basis
point cuts historically are about
recessions.
>> What about a 25 basis point cut? What do
you need to see in the next jobs report?
>> I think you need to see the unemployment
rate moving higher. Right. So Powell was
very clear in in the July press
conference. You know, a lot of noise in
the data, but immigration's having an
important effect on the labor market. It
it means labor supply is falling about
in line with labor demand. So, you know,
you hearken back to the the 1992
Carville line. It's it's the economy
stupid. In this case, the Fed chair is
saying there's a lot of data out there,
but you know, it's it's the unemployment
rate that'll tell us whether slack is
being created or not. So, I would say on
balance, if the unemployment rate's
moving higher and they think it it will
keep moving higher, then that's your
scenario for getting a 25 basis point
rate cut in September. And as Rick Reer
said, maybe getting policy closer to
neutral and and and re-evaluating as
things go. Otherwise, if the
unemployment rate stays at 4.2, but it's
inflation that's moving higher, then the
Fed can skip September and stay on hold.
a lot of noise surrounding this labor
report because after it the president
decided to fire the head of the BLS. Um
does that undermine market confidence in
your view?
>> I think it fits a pattern where US
country risk is is rising. Right. So you
go back to trying to reshape a global
trade narrative and tariffs coming much
faster, much higher than than than
people thought originally. you know,
concerns about the independence of the
Fed and the val validity of the data. It
all aligns in a way that suggests your
country risk premium is is higher.
That's tended to manifest itself most in
in the dollar, but doesn't have to stay
there. Could show up in other places.
>> If we do get a blatantly political
appointment to the BLS, how would you
and the team at Morgan Stanley start to
approach the data releases from them?
Would it change what you do and how you
interpret them? Initially I would say no
because there is still a career staff
there and the processes are in place. So
I think it would be and the concern
would be about gradual erosion in the
quality of US data. So I I would say no
not not initially but it's something we
would be watching over time.
>> Neil Duta called it the gold standard in
terms of the world how the US collects
data and the US jobs report. Could more
be done though? Do you feel like you're
not getting enough data to really
understand where we are right now and
the dynamics of the economy? Well, I'm
an economist, so I'm going to say yes.
Um, but I I do believe that if you know,
there's there's been a narrative
recently that, you know, there's been a
lot of negativity thrown on federal
government workers and and what they do
for the economy. But the idea of
producing high quality, visible
um data that that tell you then how to
manage the economy has a lot of value to
it. We probably don't put enough
resources into understanding where
employment and inflation is every month,
right? You think of well the h the
household survey every month, you know,
there's there's a pool of about 60,000
people that we're sampling. Why only 60?
>> Right? Yes, 126,000 or so establishments
that we get payroll data from. That's a
lot. But but why not more? Shouldn't we
get higher quality signal from from the
data? We're probably underinvesting. And
even though as you say US data is the
gold standard and and it is what allows
us to make better policy.
>> So it sounds like you want to make the
BLS great again. Michael Genan of Morgan
Stanley thank you so much for joining us
this Monday morning. Coming up on the
program Barbara Duran of BD8 Capital,
Henry Drae of Veta Partners and the NY
president Lynn Martin, Michelle Meyer of
Mastercards Economics Institute. You're
watching Bloomberg surveillance.
[Music]
Right now the market is becoming more
desensitized to tariffs. We haven't
really seen the push back we thought we
might from some of our trading partners,
which goes to show just how broken the
global trading system was to begin with.
>> We're not big fans of of tariffs. If you
have perpetual negotiations,
uncertainty prevails.
>> We're all holding our breath to wait and
see how bad the trade disruptions will
be on the real economy.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Good morning from New York City for
Audience Worldwide. I'm Amry Hordern
alongside Danny Ber. Jonathan and Lisa
are off today. Danny, what a difference
a weekend makes. We have stock futures
rebounding from Friday's low after that
weaker than expected. Labor market data,
another big week ahead. Earnings in full
swing. We're going to get more data that
potentially is going to really try to
help us understand what is going on in
this economy. At the same time, what is
not on that board and potentially the
most important thing the market cares
about right now is what the president
said last night heading back to
Washington DC from the weekend, saying
one, he's going to have the names for a
new Fed seat for Adriana Cougler
stepping down and resigning and also a
new name for the head of the BLS. We
would be having such a different
conversation this morning had it not
been for the firing of the BLS chief,
had it not been for Adriana Cougler to
be stepping down. The problem is is that
those are conversations that are still
worth having. Did the labor market data
show that real cracks are appearing and
this is a Fed that is behind or close to
be being behind on cutting? Are these
earnings that are starting to show that
consumers might be exhibiting some
weakness? Have the tariffs really
settled out? These are some big
existential questions. Instead, it's a
market that necessarily has to be
distracted on things like credibility of
the data and independence of the Fed.
Yeah. and credibility of not just the
data but also is it going to be
politicized now if the president wants
to put a new head of the BLS of the BLS
in there and we heard from Kevin Hasset
over the weekend he said that they want
their own person in there so they could
believe the data Michael Gapen though of
Morgan Stanley was basically outlining
that this is part for the course they
were hearing from corporate America
there was so much uncertainty about
where the tariff rates were going to lie
that basically it was paralysis on the
hiring and firing front there's so much
irony in all of this because the numbers
were bad partially and in large part
because of policy. By the way, the
government hiring numbers were really
poor. Wasn't that the whole point? Neil
Duta talked about this. Isn't that what
the Trump administration was trying to
do? And by the way, part of the reason
the BLS has been struggling to collect
data. Yes, its response rates going
down, but it's their lack of funding.
So, in some ways, the Trump
administration very much hoisted by
their own petard. How much of a
difference would put a new chief in
really make? Does it just turn around
and make things worse potentially? We'll
have to see. This morning though, not
worse, better when it comes to equity
futures. They are up this morning. S&P
500 up 510 of a percent. Euro dollar at
115 and treasuries 10-year yield 4.2. We
saw yields really take leg lower
following the weaker than expected labor
market data. Coming up this uh hour,
Barbara Duran of BD8 Capital as the S&P
500 looks to snap a 4-day losing streak.
Henrietta Trace of Veta Partners on an
opening for a new Fed Governor and the
NY President Lynn Martin on weathering
market volatility. We begin this hour
with stocks gaining following their
worst weekly performance in over two
months. Barbara Duran of BD8 Capital
writing, "It may be time to take a
breather and let the market settle down.
Worstcase fears may need to be
incorporated into the market before
investors are willing to step back in.
Barbara joins us now for more. Some wide
word wise words this morning after the
Friday and the weekend we just had. So
now is it a time that you actually maybe
want to like step aside until we get
September more data in August and
September deciding what the Fed is going
to do?
>> Yeah, I think so. I mean we're going
there's going to be some catalyst for a
pullback here. You had the market at 23
times earnings. You've had a 30% rebound
since the April 7th low. And you've got,
I think, a little bit of froth showing
up in terms of the meme stocks. You look
at the IPO um for Figma on Thursday,
which was up 250%.
And something that I haven't seen
discussed too much yet, but margin debt
is back to where it was at levels
pre207.
And of course, we know the bare markets
that followed after that. So, I think
there's some concern right here where we
are, but people want to be invested in
this market. And so, we'll see. After
Friday, I really thought we could swish
around here, but looks like the futures
are are going to open here because I
think once you've had time to look at
these numbers, jobless claims are still
supportive. The the unemployment rates
been between 4.1 and 4.2% the last 6
months. And until we and those are
leading indicators and until we see some
signs there, you know, the BLS numbers,
I mean, the revisions are extreme, but
it's not unheard of. I mean, last year
in August, you know, 2024, they revised
downward by over 800,000 jobs, and that
was under the Biden administration. So,
it's really a function of their of their
rolling methodology. You know, the first
month, then a revision, the second
month, third month, the final because
it's all about response rates from the
companies that they're surveying. So,
you know, it looks like things might
we'll see today. We know what happens.
>> And it's probably a good thing to get
revisions because it means that we've
made the data all that more accurate.
But Barbara, you lined out some of the
concerns. Some other people would take
those concerns as Michael Hartnett of
Bank of America does and say, it's a
bubble starting to form. Would you go so
far as to say that there is some fraud
as mentioned in terms of when you see
the meme stocks in an IPO up 250% and
the margin debt, we could be heading
into that territory. But again, this is
when you've had such a fast rebound and
where valuations are, you do have to be
cautious and this is where you take to
start to take some money off the table
in terms of your stocks. I mean I am
still fully invested. I'm going to
remain fully invested but you do have to
have some risk management. That means
taking profits in some names.
>> It's also been confusing to understand
the earnings picture because you have
tech doing so well. You haven't even
have some you have some of the consumer
names too. All the credit card companies
saying spending looks robust but then
you have people like PNG who say
consumers are more valueoriented.
They're a little bit more cautious.
PayPal saying tariff sensitive areas are
more cautious too. How have you
interpreted what corporate America has
told us? Well, Danny, I think you're
absolutely right. There is a bifurcation
going on. The AI play is alive and well
and you saw that last week, you know,
with the meta dramatic increase in
earnings and the response of the stock
and Microsoft as well. And as you just
mentioned, the credit card companies,
the travel companies, even Booking.com,
they're all seeing not only just current
um consumer strength, but they're
looking ahead and saying we see it looks
fine. And so there's been very little um
cracks in the consumer spending and the
lower income, yes, they're feeling the
pressure. And that's where I think the
PGs of the world, you know, they they
are passing along the pricing and we
will see I think more of that.
Companies, as you said earlier, you
know, Amory are on hold waiting to see
how all of this settles out. So pricing
has not really kicked in. Companies are
we don't know what our costs are going
to be, although Ford last week said
could be two billion and GM similar. So
I think it really is uh we're still
playing out the tariff impact and we're
going to start to see that over the next
month or two. Well, this week on
Thursday, that's when the new date is
set for these new tariff rates to take
effect. In that sense, could we put this
story behind us and the second half of
the year potentially we're going to get
more clarity from corporate America?
>> Well, I think that's it's an interesting
question because it looked like coming
into this Friday news, the markets had
been assuming tariffs are pretty stable
and they're still in a way they are. The
instead of being sort of 14 15% average
that people are assuming, it's now up to
17 18%. So that will cost companies,
that will cost the consumer, and that
again when those rates kick in, it'll be
another month or two before you see it.
But from the previous tariffs, we are
going to start to see it. And we've got
C CPI and PPI numbers, two sets coming
out before the Fed meets again in
September. So we'll see because that's
obviously right now what's going on. The
Fed, does this really change their view?
Labor looks like it's softening. You're
not seeing it in the leading indicators
I mentioned earlier, jobless claims,
etc. So, and they're still having to
keep a close eye this balance of jobs
versus inflation.
>> After April 2nd, the market reaction one
was one that pushed Trump to back off on
the worst of his intentions. We've seen
him not back off this time around, and
it is a market that is selling off, but
it's resulted in a Trump blame game of
Powell. Are there any more checks left
when it comes to market reaction on the
president or does it just result on
things like firing the BLS chief and
remaking the Fed?
>> Yeah, it's a good question because the
market has, you know, assumed that it is
a lot of bark and not bite. And so
that's what you've seen the market
making new highs and even today looks
like the market is going to have a a a
good day you know assuming that okay we
now the tariffs are out of the way the
jobs you know numbers are not great but
we also understand that we haven't seen
the canary in the coal mine which would
be jobless claims etc. So no, I don't
think there's a good check in the market
here until you start to see and earnings
right now are coming in they were when
we went into this quarter as we know the
last quarter first quarter was 13.5 plus
percent. And because of April and the
tariffs some companies withdrew guidance
but a lot cut their numbers. So we came
into this quarter at a 4.9% overall
estimate for S&P 500 numbers. Right now,
twothirds of companies have reported 80
to 83% are beating those numbers. And
right now, the blended rate is 10.3%.
So, it's it's double what was
anticipated coming in. So, right now, as
long as earnings are holding up, so it's
going to take another quarter. We're
going to have to wait till the next
quarter earnings to see what the bite
is. And I think we have a pretty good
guess though, the companies that will be
hurt. And you're seeing it already in
the durable goods numbers. Inflation is
creeping up there. And that's what we
got to see where what is more dangerous.
You know, the jobs are slowing down and
what we've seen is not mass layoffs.
It's been a slow easing of the labor
market and of course immigration, we
don't know the impact there. That's
still going on and then construction and
a being the most uh affected there. So,
I just think, you know, the the Fed, I
think, has been correct to wait and see,
you know, how the balance, you know,
shifts. And again, we're just going to
have to wait for more numbers. Even
though it's been this slow churn of a
little bit of weakness in the labor
market, it was still a bond market that
was caught by utter surprise when you
had a drop of 27 basis points on the
front end, the mo most in more than two
years. Did that incident show us that
bonds can act as a hedge or was it just
a mismatch in positioning? M I mean
you're right about the bonds can show us
the way and certainly that was you know
a month or two ago when the long bond
was shooting up and people were like oh
my god the bond vigilantes are back and
that's going to check things and that
can happen you know and that will happen
you know if things do get too extreme
one way or the other right now you know
it's the bond market was reacting I
think in normal fashion to the news on
Friday so right now it's I don't think
it's going to you re anybody in
>> or more of a hedge just in a portfolio.
>> Yeah. Oh, definitely in a portfolio.
Yeah, because you've still got high high
rates there and so um enough to counter
sort of even some of the dividend paying
stocks that it's attractive to still be
invested in in fixed income.
>> The bond market was reacting to the
data. Is anything in the market right
now reacting to the policy implications?
The fact that the president didn't like
the jobs number and decided he wants to
fire the head of the BLS.
>> Yeah. I mean, I think that's that's a
longer term impact question because it's
I think for me it's in conjunction with
the attack on PAL and the independents
by definition of the Fed and also the
BLS blaming the head of that for and and
I in my view politicizing that you know
by accusing um the head of that of
manipulating the numbers which you know
every credible person out there coming
out over the weekend is saying no
they're not manipulated. you may want to
broaden it as your guest just before
this said in terms of maybe more than
121,000 companies and maybe some way to
speed up the collection so we don't have
these revisions but basically I think
that um you know this this calls into
question by foreign investors and others
about the credibility of the US you know
whether and we saw this this fright a
few months ago the the dollar and people
are they leaving and US exceptionalism I
don't think so you know all the evidence
has been they're still buying bonds and
they're
you know, buying the dollar, but on the
margin, people are trying to move away,
and I don't think this is helpful um to
to attack the credibility of the Fed,
you know, and the BLS.
>> Barbara, thank you so much for your time
this morning. Barbara Durant of BD8
Capital Partners. Danny, it's what
Michael Gabin was saying. This all just
means more of a risk premium to the US
when you're investing.
>> And it comes at a dangerous time because
our deficits are ballooning. If you get
that undermining of both the Fed
governor and the FOMC and at the same
time the BLS, what does that mean for
trying to fund? What does that mean for
the long end? Can you really get the the
rally? To Barbara's point, there's
already been a question of how many
foreigners are willing to come into the
US? Does that just further undermine it?
>> All right, let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere watching this morning.
Your Bloomberg brief with Yahara. Hey,
hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
hey, y
President Trump is set to announce a new
Federal Reserve governor and Bureau of
Labor Statistics head in the coming
days. He told reporters he has a couple
of people in mind to rep to replace Fed
Governor Adriana Cougler. His pick might
be in the running to fill Fed Chair Jay
Powell's spot when his term ends in May.
Meanwhile, BMW is hitting back at Tesla
with longer range EVs. The German car
maker is rolling out 40 new or updated
models with high performance computers
and new design cues under a new lineup
called New Class. CEO Oliver Zipsy says
the company's lineup will show that BMW
can build superior electric cars and the
rest of the market will have to answer.
And Indian Prime Minister Modi struck a
defiant tone after President Trump
imposed a 25% tariff on the country
urging the nation to buy local goods.
Modi also insisting the country would
continue to buy Russian oil with the
government describing the India Russia
relationship as steady and time-tested.
The White House has threatened more
action if India continues to purchase
that oil. Dr. Bloomberg brief Yahara,
thank you so much. Up next, getting a
fresh set of eyes on the data. Does the
administration have any evidence that it
was rigged? As the president said,
>> there have been a bunch of patterns that
could make people wonder. And I think
the most important thing for people to
know is that it's the president's
highest priority that the data be
trusted.
>> And Kevin Hasset says that's why they
want their own person at the BLS.
Henrietta Trees of Veta Partners joins
us next. Her input on this story. You're
watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. I'm Amry Hordern alongside
Danny Ber. Futures this morning
rebounding after Friday's swift sell-off
following the weaker than expected labor
market report. On top of that, the
massive downward revisions, but the but
the market now baking in potentially two
Fed rate cuts. So maybe bad news is good
news before a year end. Under
surveillance morning, getting a fresh
eyes on the data. Does the
administration have any evidence that it
was rigged? As the president said,
>> there have been a bunch of patterns that
can make people wonder. And I think the
most important thing for people to know
is that it's the president's highest
priority that the data be trusted and
that people get to the bottom of why
these revisions are so uh unreliable.
What we need is a fresh set of eyes over
the BLS. The president wants his own
people there so that when we see the
numbers uh they're more transparent and
more reliable.
>> Here's the latest. President Donald
Trump is set to fill new vacancies on
both the Federal Reserve and the Bureau
of Labor Statistics following the
resignation of the Fed Governor Adriana
Cougler and also the firing of the BLS
commissioner. Joining us now is
Bloomberg's Mike Shepard from Washington
DC. Mike, I want to pick up that line
from Kevin Hasset. The president wants
his own people there so that we see the
numbers, they're more transparent and
more reliable. Is now the BLS
commissioner going to be a political
job?
Well, Donald Trump is certainly trying
to shape it that way in much the way
that he has also tried to shape and
influence elections, for example, at the
Justice Department and as well as his
upcoming pick for the new Federal
Reserve vacancy, uh, the one created by
Adriana Cougler's departure there. Now,
Amory, what this does is it sets up a
challenge to uh the political
independence of an agency that had long
been viewed as outside the political
frey. The Bureau of Labor Statistics had
never been seen as uh an entity or an
institution with government that was
subject to sort of the usual political
give and take. It was a bipartisan uh
vote uh 86-9
that approved Erica McInterer for the
job uh during the Biden administration
and current vice president JD Vance then
a US senator even voted in favor of her.
Yet we are seeing Kevin Hasset raising
questions about the credibility of the
work of BLS under McInterer and
insisting that the president wants to
put his own team in there. Hasset also
insisted though that the president is
not going to look across the data
generated by the government and simply
fire anyone who crosses uh his view of
what the economy is at the moment. Uh
we're going to get a test of that though
later this month. Uh we're going to see
the uh personal consumption expenditure
index uh from the commerce department.
So what will happen there at the bureau
of economic analysis if the numbers come
in hot? If we see a higher level when it
comes to inflation, this is a gauge that
the Fed watches very closely to
determine whether to cut interest rates.
Does the president try to look for
making changes there as well? So it does
raise questions about the credibility
and independence as Barbara Duran just
uh raised and mentioned uh in in the
previous segment talking about how uh
these institutions had previously been
seen as independent from any sort of
political interference and that sort of
independence is something that Wall
Street has valued. It's come to look to
these numbers as independent as uh
reached on a survey basis. Yes, there
may be some ways to improve it, but it
doesn't categor it doesn't fall into the
category of something that needs to be
addressed as a political problem. Amory
>> and Neil Duta calling it the gold
standard. Bloomberg's Mike Shepard,
thank you so much for joining us. Let's
continue the conversation now. Henrietta
Trees Aveda Partners. Henrietta, what do
you think? Do you think the firing of
the BLS commissioner and the president
saying he's going to name someone new
this week undermines the credibility of
the data?
Well, I think what's happened here is
that the president has lost sight of the
fact that the BLS is on his side.
They're here to help. Um, they are
effectively his eyes and ears when he
makes policy decisions. So, if for
example, you want to raise the domestic
tariff rate from 2% to 18%. Then the BLS
is here to tell you that disrupting
Trans-Pacific trade and creating uh so
much uncertainty that businesses don't
have to don't know how to operate, there
will in fact only be $35,000 jobs
created over three consecutive months.
You will shed $116,000 manufacturing
jobs as you tax inputs. So the BLS is
informing him in real time about what
happens when you institute your
policies. And the president has a couple
options. You can either course correct,
adjust your prior. You can say these
casualties are worth the price of the
trade war, or I guess apparently option
C, which is fire the commissioner. And
so that's where we are right now. And
it's not a good look for the
administration and not something that
the economist universe or Wall Street is
going to take sitting down. Uh, as we're
seeing right now,
>> it's not a good look for the
administration, Henrietta, but how
impactful is it when you when it comes
to the Bureau of Labor Statistics? How
strong is the institution itself from
any political sway? if we do get an
outright political appointee to head it.
>> You know, I've gotten this question a
lot from investors over the weekend. The
continuity that we're going to have is
probably going to be with us for at
least the next 3 months based on my
calculations of the calendar. So, right
now, as you know, the Senate has gone
into recess. They are um not technically
on the kind of recess though that allows
for the president to just appoint
somebody either at the Fed or to replace
the BLS commissioner. So what we're
going to have instead is the acting
commissioner who's already held that
role twice before over the last decade.
And so investors should have some
confidence in a continuity of the data
through I would imagine at least
October. We're going to spend September
working through continued nominations
but probably also deal with um you know
government funding fights and things
along those lines and probably the Fed
chair is going to be uh the Fed
nomination is going to be pulled forward
ahead of BLS. So I would say BLS data
and a new commissioner is probably a
late October, November time horizon and
that's the stability that investors can
count on for the time being.
>> What happens after that though
Henrietta?
>> Yeah. After that then we are in to see
who he's going to nominate and at that
point what is the administration
trusting the numbers on the staff the
2,000 folks working at BLS have been
there for a very long time. They are
very diligent. It's going to be really
difficult to manipulate the data. Um,
and I think you know 141 years or
whatever in existence is is going to
hopefully maintain them as the gold
standard, but it's tricky from here.
>> Henrietta, let's talk about the open
seat now that the president has to fill
at the Fed. How are you viewing who he
potentially is going to put in that
chair?
>> Um, I I agree with conventional wisdom.
one of the Kevin or Secretary Bessant. I
mean, I think Secretary Bessant is very
intimately involved in the trade
negotiations at this point and things
with China, I think especially require
an expanded cabinet. Uh, and disruption
will only increase the perception
amongst our trade partners that they
don't know who the chief negotiator is.
At this point, we have Secretary Lutnik,
Secretary Besson, USR Greer, and also
Marco Rubio in a lot of those instances
and specifically with China. So, I think
continuity there for the trade
negotiations probably prohibits him from
putting Secretary Besson in, but that's
my best guess. And this is of course the
parlor game in all the lunchrooms around
uh Wall Street right now.
>> So, your best guess is that it's not
going to be Besson. But what about the
other names? Do you think the president
is viewing this as someone he wants to
be chair? So, basically setting up the
Cougler seat earlier now as a shadow Fed
chair, or is it going to be potentially
a regular normal appointee as a
governor? I think shadow fed chair is
going to be the immediate perception and
the expectation is that that seniority
is going to elevate them when the time
comes and uh Powell leaves. But um I I
want to be mindful that the
administration and the president in
particular really likes the parlor game
of who will and who won't be um in a
position of seniority and who he'd
rather, you know, sort of put the thumb
on the scales for to be fed chair. Um,
so I imagine it will look a lot like
this is the next candidate to be chair
um in his in his desires. Uh, but
there'll probably still be speculation
as we go into May about who might
supersede that person, especially if
there are unsatisfactory
um, conclusions drawn by whoever he
nominates in the near term.
>> Henrietta, thanks so much for your time
this morning. Henrietta Trees of Veta
Partners and Danny, this gets more
complicated, of course, because they
don't know yet if Powell is stepping
down from his seat. Yes, his
chairmanship at the Fed will be over,
but he doesn't lose his seat until 2028.
>> Right. Well, if they put someone who's
conventional, does that mean Powell
feels he can step back? And does that
mean Trump gets another appointee and
the FOMC is remade in his image? Coming
up on the program, NY President Lynn
Martin as IPO activity ramps up on Wall
Street. Plus, Yah will be back with us
with your morning movers as Wayfair sees
its best quarter since the pandemic.
That stock up more than 10% this
morning. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
Good morning. 7:30 here in New York
City. I'm Amry Hordern. Futures this
morning bouncing back after Friday's low
and selloff given the weaker expected
labor market data and really those
downward revisions. Now what you see an
annualized monthly jobs report basically
at 35,000 just per a month. Lots of
concerns but this means that traders are
now pricing in about 90% chance that the
Fed will cut rates in September and that
is what is fueling this market this
morning. We do have number of
individuals like Yed Denny joining us
earlier saying the market reaction on
Friday was overdone. Lots of seasonal
volatility. Of course, there's one more
jobs report before the Met Fed meets in
September. We are two hours away from
the cash open. Let's get you an update
on your morning movers as well with
Yahira. Hey, Yahara. Hi, Enry. We start
with Wayfair. The company just reported
results and shares are absolutely
soaring up 11%. This is because the
online furniture company completely blew
past analyst estimates, posting its best
quarter since the pandemic when everyone
and their mom was buying furniture.
Revenue in the second quarter handily
beat reaching nearly $3.3 billion and
earnings were more than double what
analysts were expecting. Meanwhile, we
have some more potential M&A news. This
time in air travel. We are seeing shares
of Blade up 16% on our reporting that
Joby Aviation is exploring a deal to buy
the helicopter ride company which as we
know flies New Yorkers to JFK and the
Hamptons. And the reason Joby is
interested is this is a company
developing electric air taxis and a
built-in market would be ideal as it
looks to start commercial flights next
year. And we are taking a look at
Spotify shares. They are also rising up
4% after announcing it's raising prices
for premium subscriptions in several
markets around the world. But good news
for us here in the US, this does not
affect us. But this pop in shares comes
after the after the stock had its worst
one-day drop in two years last week when
it reported a surprise loss due to
rising employee cost. So investors
obviously uh cheering this move since it
could mean it could help margins moving
forward. And Marry, thanks so much. You
hire Danny. I'm stuck on Blade. Do you
blade or do you drive to the Hamptons? I
drive or I take a bus or I take Long
Island Railroad. I'm all about public
transportation. And don't take Blade.
Good to know. On our radar this morning,
President Trump set to name two new
appointees, one to the Federal Reserve
and the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Fed
Governor Adriana Cougler resigning from
her role last week. And then of course
on Friday, Trump fired the BLS
commissioner after the week payrolls
print. It is very much so a circumstance
of Trump firing the messenger. That is
what we got. As Neil Duta says, it's not
just about the data and the message
behind it. He needs actual data to move
in his favor. It can't just be vibes.
But as is often the case, Trump did
identify a real problem. Now, the cause
of what he said is wrong and that it was
manipulated. But it is a real problem
with the data we've been getting.
Response rates have been falling.
Funding for these government instit
institutions have also been falling. So,
ironically, the solution isn't to
dismantle it and put someone new in.
It's to give them more money. It's to
allow them to work harder and put in the
resources that would allow the data to
get better
>> to have better data data collection.
Also, the other irony of this is that
weak report means that potentially he
was going to get what he has been
truththing about every single day for
the past few months, which is a rate cut
potentially as soon as September. It's
what he wanted. And by the way, they
wanted jobs to fall because they wanted
to slim down the federal government.
That's literally what we saw in the
data. So on both those two fronts, it's
something that you'd think Trump should
welcome, but again, instead firing the
messenger. Also happening in Washington,
officials in Canada are optimistic a new
trade deal could be reached with the
United States after President Trump
hiked Canada's tariffs rate to 35%. One
official saying Prime Minister Mark
Carney and Trump are expected to talk in
the coming days. I go back though to
what uh USR's Jam Greer said to us on
Friday, saying that some countries are
trying to manifest a deal last minute,
but saying ultimately we have to do
what's right for America. It's a split
screen between what we're hearing from
some of the American trading partners
and the Americans negotiating this
themselves. Will Trump actually reach an
agreement with Carney? One thing we have
seen work though are the two leaders
coming together and meeting. It's very
similar with what we got in Mexico. It
took the it took Trump sitting down with
a Mexican president. Could that work
this time? Although it has been a Mark
Carney who was literally elected saying
he'd take a tough line with Trump.
>> What's also interesting when it comes to
Canada is the fine print. If you are a
company that has USMCA compliant
products, guess what? You don't have
that 35% tariff. And guess what? That's
about 90% of the products coming into
the United States. So maybe Carney
Carney can take a harder line. Still,
there are parts of their economy that
would feel the pain of that 35%. So you
see this rushing of Canada and many
other countries at this point, let's be
very clear, to try to get something done
before the deadline. Also happening,
workers at Boeing's defense division are
striking for the first time in nearly
three decades after union members
rejected the company's latest contract
offer. More than 3,000 employees walked
off the job after voting down a deal
that would have raised wages by 20%. And
Danny, you see Boeing is a little bit
softer this morning in the pre-market.
>> Look, it's not a great look for Kelly
Orberg because it recalls to times past,
specifically last fall when they had a
strike. But just to be clear, this one
is way smaller in magnitude. It's
something like 2,300 workers that are
going to be walking off. Last time
around, it was 33,000.
So, that had a really huge impact. And
we even heard from Kelly Orberg on
Boeing's call getting ready for this
saying, "Listen, we can get through
this. It's different this time. It's not
going to halt things, for example, like
their 737 Max production, which it did
last time." So, it seems a company that
has more of an upper hand in
negotiations.
>> All right, we want to turn back to the
markets now. IPOs are making a comeback
this summer with the latest Figma share
surging more than 250%
in its debut last week. So excited for
this conversation. Joining us now is NY
President Lynn Martin. Lynn, good
morning. Thanks for joining us.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> So you told John Lee and myself in May
that you saw quote unprecedented levels
of volume following the April 2nd
Liberation Day, but for the IPO
landscape, you were optimistic, but the
timeline was shifted out. Where are we
now in that timeline and that pipeline?
Well, I think as a result of the
successful deals we've been able to
bring to market really starting in that
end of May time frame, but most
manifestly over the last two weeks when
we had seven IPOs. I think it's fair to
say that the markets are open for IPOs.
Are markets open for all IPOs though? Is
it do we still need to be selective
among those that are being brought in
and they need to be tech companies for
example or can we start to see some of
the smaller midcaps come back too?
>> Yeah, we've seen a variety of sizes and
companies across different sectors come
to market in the last few months. Uh
tech in particular has as you point out
had a great reception in the market. You
know, in the last two weeks, we saw
Neielson IQ, we saw McGraill, we saw
Figma, as you just had the screen up,
and then a couple months ago, we saw
Circle come to market, also Hinge Health
and Mountain. So, some really tech
companies, but mostly pretty much all
sectors the market's ready for.
>> Bit of a split screen though, Lynn,
because you start to have some IPOs
coming back. Yep.
>> And at the same time, you have these
private equity players coming up with
liquidity solutions that just allows
companies to be private for longer. Be
it secondary funds, be it perpetual
capital. And their argument is companies
just don't want to be public and we're
giving the option not to be. Longer
term, does that hinder IPOs?
>> Well, I think what it means is that the
companies that come to market are better
companies. You look at the companies
that have come to market. It's not the
first time that they've been in the news
about an IPO. Look at look at Circle for
example. They were talking about going
public back in 2021. When they came to
market though, they're a better company.
They have a more refined strategy, a
more refined P&L, uh, a story for the
investors that generates a tremendous
amount of excitement. And I think what
you're seeing with the reception of the
companies that have come to market is
that pent up demand in the public
markets. That pent up excitement in the
public markets for new issues to come to
market. It's something that I talk with
long only investors. It's something I
talk with retail about how they're they
really want to see these new names,
these growth companies come to market to
add to their portfolio. that pent-up
demand was it being held back because of
regulation in Washington?
>> It was really being held back because of
volatility and uncertainty in markets.
Uh you know there have been a variety of
events that have occurred over the last
three three and a half years wars um
geopolitical uncertainty that have
fueled that volatility. Now that there
is more certainty, more certainty around
the geopolitical landscape, more
certainty around the market and the
trajectory of the market. That's why
you're seeing these companies finally
come to market.
>> How has the change in regulatory
leadership though the SEC regulates the
NY? How has that potentially changed
your business going forward?
>> Uh, we're very optimistic. We had a
great relationship with the past
administration and the past SEC, but
we're very excited about
>> Paul Atkins though is very different
than Gary Gens.
>> He is. He is. And we've had a long
relationship with Paul Atkins. This
isn't Paul Atkins first time in the SEC.
And we had a very productive working
relationship with him. We've already had
a very productive working relationship
in the short time that he's been chair.
and a lot of the modifications that he's
looking to make I think are going to
benefit the public markets. So we have a
moment where public market volatility
has started to eb, but even so you have
the rebirth of meme stocks and you have
these weird things happening where you
have open door for example on one day
can account for 10% of all equity
trading volume. What do you make of just
the health of these markets at this
moment as some of that starts to bubble
up?
>> I think the markets are incredibly
healthy. I mean our markets are the envy
of the world. The breath, the depth, the
liquidity, the trade certainty. Um, any
one day though, there could be
excitement about a different name. Um, I
think what you're seeing is a lot of the
pent up demand looking for the new
issues and new things to trade.
>> It's very different though than 2021
where those retail investors had all the
money to go. So when you look at that,
you're like, "Okay, this is just a
temporary phenomenon." Or do we just
need to get used to single names getting
this wind sweep of various excitement
built up online and that's just the new
normal we live in?
>> No, I really can't speak to what's
driving a stock any on any given day. Um
certainly the the social media and the
the conversation around stocks overall I
think is actually a good thing. It means
that people aren't interested in
investing. They're interested in adding
to their portfolio. They're also
interested in diversifying their
portfolio.
>> Speaking of diversification, on
Thursday, AT&T says they're going to
have this dual listing in the IC in
Texas. What's the business like in
Texas?
>> Yeah. Well, we're very um supportive of
all of the changes that Governor Abbott
has rolled out in the state of Texas to
really foster that progrowth
environment. Since we announced NYC
Texas and launched the exchange, which
was the end of March this year, we've
added 20 new listings to uh the
exchange. So, we're very optimistic and
grateful for Governor Abbott for really
leading the way on pro business
atmosphere.
>> Do you see more money leaving New York,
though?
>> Uh, you know, I don't really I I don't I
don't know. I don't think so. Um, I
think New York's always going to be an
important epicenter for markets, but I
think it's interesting the pro business
moves and then ultimately what the pro
business moves in Texas will lead to on
the federal level more than anything.
>> Lynn, thanks so much for your time this
great insight. Nice President Lynn
Martin. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. Here's
your Bloomberg brief at Yahara. Hey yra.
Hi and Marie. Brazilian President Lula D
Silva said that he's open to trade talks
with President Trump on one condition.
His country must be treated as an equal
to the US. Lula said he wants to
negotiate on equal terms and will
support Brazilian companies, telling the
US, "When you're ready to negotiate, our
proposals are on the table." Meanwhile,
we're reporting that the Adani Group is
looking at a tie-up with Chinese EV
giant BYD. It would allow the Adani
group to manufacture batteries in India
and further a push into clean energy.
That's according to people familiar with
the matter as the company denies it's
exploring a collaboration.
And Delta is trying to calm Blowback
after the company said it's been testing
an AI tool that could help set up to 20%
of its domestic fairs. The airline faced
sharp criticism from consumers and
lawmakers on concerns that AI will set
personalized ticket prices based on
passenger data it collects. Delta said
it has not used AI to set personalized
prices. That's your Bloomberg brief
Emory. Thanks so much. Up next, the
consumer hangs on. If you look at
consumer spending so far in the first 6
months of this year, we're running just
below zero. So, we're kind of in this
really low growth world right now that
that we've been expecting.
>> Michelle Meyer of the Mastercard
Economics Institute joins us next.
You're watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. Markets this morning
bouncing back from Friday's low after
the week of unexpected jobs data and the
massive revisions for the prior two
months. S&P futures are up nearly 6/10en
of a percent. Mike Wilson and Morgan
Stanley this morning putting out a note.
Investors should be buyers of potential
stock pullbacks. He says we're buyers of
dips and Friday may be uh the downside
for now. And they see liberation day,
that April 2nd big tariff chart,
Liberation Day, the president coming out
the Rose Garden said that was a major
and durable low for equities under
surveillance this morning, the consumer
hanging in.
>> We're just kind of decelerating into a
lower run rate of jobs, which which of
course translates into a lower run rate
of GDP. Right? If you look at consumer
spending so far in the first 6 months of
this year, we're running just below
zero, right? real consumer spending,
which is obviously correlated to GDP.
So, we're kind of in this really low
growth world right now that that we've
been expecting.
>> Here's the latest. US consumer sentiment
rising to a fivemon high in July despite
consumer spending showing signs of
strain. Michelle Meyer of Mastercard
Economics Institute writing, "Consumers
are the heartbeat of the economy and
they are resilient." Michelle joins us
now. So, you say they're resilient. What
kind of cracks, Michelle, and good
morning. Thanks for joining us. do you
think the economy is seeing right now
when it comes to the consumer?
>> Well, I think it goes back to what we
learned over the last few days on Friday
with the jobs report that clearly there
has been an uncertainty impact in the
economy that has mattered for companies
when they think about the labor demand
numbers. So the slowdown in job creation
within the May and the June report
looking distinctly different than we
thought it was in real time shows that
some of that uncertainty mattered that
there probably was some pausing in terms
of the pace of job creation. But
importantly there's very little evidence
of firing happening whether you look at
the jobless claims numbers or you look
at the jolt survey and I think for
consumers what that results in is a
labor market that is still supportive
right an unemployment rate of 4.2% 2%
wage growth that is still running above
underlying inflation even with some of
the tariff inflation impulses starting
to move in. So consumers are managing
this I think quite remarkably
>> and things like sales and the earnings
we've seen look really strong but Andrew
Lapthor over at Stocken noted that
twothirds of the companies in the S&P
reported declining profit margins. In
other words, for now the companies are
eating the higher costs. if they turn
around and start to rise and raise
costs, will the consumer still be
resilient?
>> Well, I think it's happening and it's
happening slowly and this is important
to keep in mind, which is that I think
relative to the initial expectations and
the fear of terrorists was that it was
going to impact the economy immediately
and all of a sudden consumers won't be
able to get items or they won't be able
to afford certain goods. And the reality
is is that it's happening slowly. It's
it's moving into the economy. It's
starting more on the the supplier side
than the companies. um and into
consumers. And if you look at the last
inflation report, it's starting to show
in certain categories. A lot of the
durable goods, discretionary goods,
whether you're looking at appliances or
auto tires or even into apparel, it's
starting to show up. So, I would argue
that consumers are already starting to
face some of those higher prices. It's
happening gradually and it's happening
uneven, which means that consumers still
have some choices in terms of how to
navigate this and move around some of
these price shocks. In terms of the
unevenness, it's also interesting to
look and see what the hottest parts of
this economy are. And it's hard to argue
it's anything but tech and AI. But these
are the very companies that are firing
on a headline level and only hiring at
the top echelons where you get the most
pay. When you look at that trend, do you
see what you're talking about? The
unevenness, does it start to get
exacerbated by some of these tech moves?
Well, I think the fact that you're
seeing all this investment focused on
technology is actually a really positive
secular trend that hopefully could help
get us through some of this cyclical
adjustment that's happening as a result
of tariffs. But yes, to your point, what
it also does is it creates a lot of
wealth in the economy. So, if you look
at the equity market, we'll see what
results today, but the trend has clearly
been very positive notwithstanding
Friday. Um, and therefore that's
positive wealth gains and those positive
wealth gains will filter into consumer
spending amongst the cohort that can
realize those gains that can invest and
can see that wealth creation.
>> That's the upper echelons of society. Do
you feel like we're going into a
K-shaped economy? Are we just already in
one?
>> You know, that's been a conversation
that's been on and off for the past
several years. And I think the reality
is is that it's there's always an
unevenness about any business cycle. Um,
and I think when you consider the start
of this cycle coming out of the
pandemic, it was certainly one that was
much more driven by lower income
consumers than we have seen in recent
history because of the amount of
stimulus that pumped in because of the
movement in the labor market, redhot
labor market, very strong wage growth.
And that has start that has shifted over
the last two years or so where lower
income consumers aren't seeing that same
wave of stimulus clearly. Um, and uh
wage growth has slowed a bit more for
that population than for others. and the
balance sheet is just frankly not going
to be as supportive.
>> We have a viewer writing in, loving to
get your thoughts on real PCE turning
negative in the first 6 months of 2025.
They say it's the first time we've seen
that since 2010, excluding of course the
pandemic. Well, real PC turning
negative, I think we can debate, but
certainly there's been a slowdown in
measures of real PC if you look at the
GDP reports in Q1 and Q2. Um, and that
reflects what we were just talking about
in terms of higher prices, right? the
consumer has already started to see some
of those price increases. And what that
does, it means that real spending starts
to slow. We saw it during the pandemic
inflationary burst. The nominal economy
was running at extraordinarily high
levels and the real economy was was much
much slower because consumers and
companies had to absorb those higher
prices. So when you have a price shock
today is a lot more muted than it was
during the pandemic period. Um, but the
real economy has to has to moderate in
order to absorb some of those those
inflation gains.
>> Michelle, you look at a lot of
alternative data sources. Yeah.
>> And right now we're in a moment where
we're starting to question the official
data we're getting, not least of which
if we do get an appointment at the BLS,
which is blatantly political. If that
does happen, would you be prepared to
lean in to those alternative data
sources? Does it change the inputs that
you use to see where we go from here?
>> Well, I am a big big advocate of many
different data sources. um at Masscard
Economics Institute we're sitting on one
of the most amazing ones which is
understanding the consumer in real time
by looking at consumer payments. So um
yes I think it's extremely important to
rely on many many different sources and
forms of data. Um the great thing about
as being an economist here in the US is
that we have a very long time series of
data coming out of the government which
has been an extraordinary support for us
in terms of how we think about modeling
the economy. But the economy is dynamic.
The economy is shifting and therefore I
think you have to be really mindful of
using a variety of different data
sources. So trying to see, you know,
really that pulse of the consumer in
particular and how consumers are
evolving their spending trends has been
a critical impact for us and I think a
real distinguishing factor. With the
president though firing the head of the
BLS, do you still put credibility in the
jobs report going forward?
>> I think you do. I mean, look, I think
they there's a huge staff of economists
at the BLS that are doing their job
doesn't really even touch the data until
the very end
>> and they've been doing their job for
decades. Um, and I think that's hard to
shift overnight. But, you know, they're
contending with the fact that the
response rate has been declining for um
surveys across all different types of
government data and that's a challenge.
So, I think continuing to adapt,
continuing to find new methodologies,
new innovative ways to gather data will
be really important. Michelle Meyer,
thank you so much for your time this
morning. Of course, Michelle Meyer of
the Mastercard Economics Institute and
Danny, that's what every economist we've
heard this morning say. Michael Gapin,
just fund it more. Neil Dada, it's the
gold standard, but why don't you just
put some more money to it so you have
better accurate jobs reports?
>> But I also think what Michelle was
saying underscores that there are other
pieces of data. So, if Trump wants to do
something that looks a little bit like
manipulation of the data, this is a
private sector that will step in. We're
not going to just completely have madeup
numbers. I think other people out there
are willing to look and find out what
the real underlying economy is. So, in
that way, again, to what Neil de Da said
on Friday when this happened, the Trump
administration can't just go off of
vibes. It needs a real economy to
participate. So, you can't just change
the data and hope the rest of the market
won't notice.
>> Also, the irony of all this, it needs
that jobs data to weaken to get the Fed
cut that the president has been pushing
Jay Powell for.
>> Yeah, exactly. This should be a good
thing. which by the way weaken the
dollar too which apparently the Trump
administration also wants.
>> Yes, exactly. All right, one more hour
of Bloomberg surveillance coming up for
you. Venue Krishna of Parkley's former
New York Fed President Bill Dudley with
a new opinion piece out this morning.
Robert Sakin of City and Null Dixon of
State Street. You're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]
When you look at the labor market data,
there's certainly some stuff to be
concerned about.
>> The inflation data are also going to be
pretty elevated in the next couple of
prints. So it makes it a really tough
backdrop for the Fed.
>> I think the bar for them to cut has
actually increased in the last few
months.
>> I do think it's time for the Fed to
really be pivoting to why are you
waiting as opposed to the well we can
wait.
>> The Fed put is still there to come in
and sort of save the day if you will.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern
>> from New York City. For our audience
worldwide, good morning. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance. I'm Anamir Hern
alongside Danny Burgerer. John and Lisa
are off today. Supposed to be a sleepy
August, but it's anything but. This
morning, we do have stocks bouncing back
after Friday's weaker than expected
payrolls report. Danny, those downward
revisions at the moment. The market
seems to be taking it in stride because
it means they're focused on September
and we could potentially get a Fed rate
cut in September. Also this week, the
president said we will have a new name.
is going to name the name when we have
that Cougler surprise Fed Governor
Adriana Cougler resignation Friday
afternoon. But has all of this just
displayed put on full display the
vulnerabilities of both this equity and
this bond market? That bond market move
was stunning on Friday. By the way, all
of July we climbed higher by 24 basis
points, completely undoing that on day
one of August, down 27 basis points. It
was a huge move in bonds. We had a huge
move in copper earlier in the week. Have
we built up a lot of positioning as we
trade at very rich valuations that make
us vulnerable to it at a time when the
data is starting to weaken. Fed
independence is being questioned. Data
credibility is being questioned and oh
by the way tariffs those are still
starting to bite with more force and
this week it's going to be still a huge
trade week. On Thursday those tariff
rates come into effect and some
countries are still trying to I think as
Jameson Greer told us uh on Friday
manifest trade deals before Thursday.
But I think most important this Monday,
given the fact that the president said
he's going to name names last night,
we're going to get a new potential name
on the Fed. Potentially, we're going to
get that before the September meeting
and he's going to appoint someone new at
the BLS. This is what Kevin Hasset had
to say over the weekend. We need a fresh
pair of eyes over the BLS. The president
wants his own people there so that when
we see the numbers, they're more
transparent and more reliable. Most
people say though, this actually just
undercuts their credibility. It does
undercut their cred credibility and it's
a real question to when that actually
starts. How resilient is this as an
institution that can keep chugging along
and keep giving us the data even if you
get a blatant political appointment? We
were talking to Henry at Art Trada
Partners earlier who said the first
couple of months we'll be okay. The
institution is all right. But what
happens after that is a real question
and it could mean a higher risk premium
attached to US assets. What does that
mean as debt spending really ramps up?
Are we going to be able to fund the twin
deficits at a lower cost if you are
concerned about credibility of the data
and your willingness if you're a
foreigner to come around and buy US
assets?
>> And that's what Michael Gapin said.
Basically, there's going to be this risk
premium when you want to look at the
United States. Maybe it's exceptional
with an asteric. All right, let's check
in on the markets this morning. You do
have futures slightly higher after
Friday's selloff. Euro dollar at 115.
potentially it can go even lower given
the fact that we do have this new 15%
tariff rate regime in place for the
European Union. Danny was talking about
what's going on in the yield space.
10-year yield this morning 4.2%.
Treasury yields saw their biggest weekly
decline since early April on Friday.
Coming up this program, Ven Venue
Krishna of Barkclays with stocks
bouncing back as traders add to rate cut
bets. Former New York Fed President Bill
Dudley on why the Fed will be quote just
fine. and null Dixon of State Street on
navigating choppiness ahead. We begin
this hour though with stocks gaining on
optimism over Fed rate cut at the Fed's
next meeting in September. Venu Krishna
of Barkclay's writing, we continue to
favor US equities verse the rest of the
world. We are confident peak trade
uncertainty has passed and Venu joins us
now. Okay, so peak trade uncertainty
maybe has passed, but what about just
other uncertainty? The fact that the
president on Friday didn't like the jobs
report and decided to fire the BLS
commissioner. Well, I think uh those are
the kind of uncertainties we'll have to
learn to live for the next three and a
half years. Uh and I think uh to some
extent I think the risk is something we
were talking earlier is that you know
have we become too desensitized to some
of these uh you know changes in policy
or uh you know are are we politicizing
some functions or key aspects of the
economy. But if you take a step back in
aggregate the macro data has been quite
resilient. The consumer did some
bifurcation for example in the economy
um but is holding in okay uh and
unemployment rate is still by historical
standards relatively low right so the
aggregate picture is not as bad as some
of the uh near-term generations
>> you prefer the US but is there now more
of a premium to invest in America
>> there is right and that shows most uh
evidently in the rates market where the
term premium has increased you know over
the last 6 months and that has to do a
lot with finally the market paying a lot
more attention to deficits and things
like that. uh and the uh policy level of
policy uncertainty at the US in equity
markets actually you know the risk
premium has been quite low has been low
for quite some time and that has to do
with the dynamism of the underlying
economy of corporate America and I think
the the the biggest boost to that has
been coming from technology and we are
in a very critical phase right now where
two mega trends in technology coming
together one is the transition in cloud
and second is AI on top of that uh so
that's what's been driving the equity
market. So and we would argue that a lot
of people saying it's rich. It's not
rich. I think it's fully valued. It was
really cheap during the post liberation
day selloff. Uh but now compared to the
underlying fundamentals, I think it's
reasonable even though there are pockets
where you need to pay attention.
>> Well, it gets back to this thing that
you're saying that in aggregate things
look healthy but underneath the surface
there are concerns. If you look at
earnings for example for consumer
companies and materials, they're down on
the year slightly but they are down on
the year. At what point does that create
a problem for the overall market or as
long as tech is booming I can ignore
those sectors and buy on an aggregate
basis?
>> I think there's a two-part answer to
that. One is you do need tech to keep
delivering and uh what's interesting on
tech at least big tech is that the
street has been on a consistent basis
wrong and or or in other words has been
underestimating their earnings power and
luckily for us they have been delivering
into their multiples on a steady basis
and their multiples by the way have been
generally trending down in the last two
years. So we have a good problem over
there. The rest of the market I would
agree with you because that is where we
are still not certain uh because the
postcoid effects are not coming in. Now
the tariff effects will start coming in
and to your point if you remove
financials and if you remove technology
then the rest of the market is to
varying degrees having a tough time. So
I would agree with you that even now
even though the headline numbers in
aggregate look great but the
discretionary segment staples parts of
healthcare parts of industrials all of
them are showing different levels of
margin pressure and I think that is just
going to build uh as we go through the
through this year. Yeah.
>> Is it also a problem that the hottest
part of this economy i.e. tech is one
that in aggregate is laying off workers
not adding to the workforce.
>> Yeah. And what's interesting is that of
course tech industry will give you a
different reason for why they're doing
that. But our hunch is that you know
software productivity is up 30 to 40%.
So if you're a tech native or a
techcentric business then I think that's
a logical outcome you can expect given
the fact that AI is actually removing
the bottom layers of of coding uh you
know but uh skills you need. So I think
that's where you're seeing right away to
what extent does this translate into the
rest of the economy has to be seen. I
mean clearly based on everything you
read there are elements in the economy
whether it is healthcare you whether
it's education AI can have a massive
positive effect right in terms of how we
consume it and what it does to
productivity. uh so I think it's a mixed
bag but the uh we have argued for over
two years now that over the next two to
you know two and a half years the single
biggest beneficiaries of this AI trend
is going to be the tech sector itself
specifically the hyperscalers and uh and
that is exactly how it's playing out
down the line we'll need to see who the
winners and losers are what new business
models come out of it how these existing
companies adapt to some of these
changing business models I think you can
expect a lot of shakeup in the the next
3 to 5 years.
>> Are you concerned that the valuations
though are just getting too high?
>> I think you were to break it up, right?
If you look at aggregate S&P valuations
about 23 times, then you would argue
that it's high. If you peel it back, big
tech started the year at 34 times
forward earnings. Right now, we're
trading at 30 times, right? So, it's
still one handle less than where we
started the year.
>> If you saw the bottom this year, it was
close to 21 times. So, obviously, it was
dirt cheap uh after liberation day. If
you look at rest of S&P outside of tech,
that's trading at roughly, I would say,
about 20 times. It's a little uh pretty
close to fair value. We think fair value
is probably slightly lower. Um so that
also is not egregiously uh rich. So I
think you know it's on the face of it if
you just look at the absolute multiples
uh then you know people jump to the
conclusion that it's rich. uh but when
you break it down to its components and
see what's driving it like for example
rest of S&P we have a fairly decent
framework where we look at what we think
is a fair value based on change in
inflation change in nominal 10-year
rates expectation for economic growth
and that tells you that we're tad rich
but not excessively so what matters is
for that economy if margin pressures
build right and if tariffs start to hurt
uh then maybe the valuation is ill uh
extended
>> if margin pressure builds and the
tariffs start to hurt, is it going to be
basically companies passing on higher
product prices to consumers or do you
think they're going to lay off people?
>> No, I think what's going to happen is
they're going it's a combination. So
when they obviously pass on the prices
then uh they're not taking a hit at all,
right? What the secondary effect of that
on ultimate demand and consumption is
going to hurt them. uh but you know what
companies have been trying to do if you
look at all the transcripts of uh the
earning season even this season last
season is depending on the industry you
are in they're trying to pass some of it
on to the supply chain they're passing
on some of them especially consumer fac
directly price increases and in some
cases remember postcoid uh prices went
up a lot so company's profitability
improved a lot so you can argue that a
lot of companies have a decent amount of
cushion to absorb some of the margin
pressures by taking in the cost
themselves
So I think it really depends on the
company. The bigger scale they have and
the more control they have over the
supply chain uh their margins will be
somewhat protected. The smaller the
companies are the less flexible they are
uh they will have to eat it in their
margins. So I think that's where the
bifurcation will come.
>> So the second half of the year is going
to be really important especially since
those rates come into effect this
Thursday.
>> Absolutely. Absolutely.
>> Then thank you so much for your time
this morning. Venu Krishna of Barclays.
Uh thank you so much for joining us.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning. Your Bloomberg
brief with Yahara. Hey, Yahira.
>> Hi, Henry. We start with our top story.
President Trump is set to announce a new
Federal Reserve Governor and Bureau of
Labor Statistics head in the coming
days. He told reporters he has a couple
of people in mind to replace Fed
Governor Adriana Cougler. His pick might
be in the running to fill Fed Chair Jay
Powell's spot when his term ends in May.
Meanwhile, Tyson Foods raised its
earnings forecast after quarterly profit
unexpectedly rose. The company saw a
boom in US chicken that offset losses in
its beef business, which has been hurt
by a severe cattle shortage here in the
US. The chicken unit posted adjusted
operating profit of $345 million in the
third quarter, the best result for the
period since 2016. Shares are up 4.2%.
Meanwhile, Tesla shares are up, also to
rising 2% after the company announced a
massive payout to CEO Elon Musk. Musk
awarded 96 million shares of restricted
stock worth over $23 billion based on
the last closing share price. Tesla's
board described the decision as a good
faith payment, saying retaining Musk is
more important than ever before. Dutch
Bloomberg brief and Marie,
>> not a bad welcome back to the sea
sweetite gift for Elon Musk. All right,
up next on the program, the morning
calls. Plus, the former New York Fed
President, Bill Dudley, with changes
coming to the Federal Reserve. He'll
weigh in. That's next. You're watching
Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
What's key then is about at least some
resolution to that story. Where's trade
policy uncertainty going forward? We've
all been talking about if you want to
reshape global trade, you're going to
have to risk downside. So, I'm not sure
that this report materially changed our
view on that right now. But I think it's
clear that the economy is adjusting to a
period of higher tariffs. Either the
consumer will eat it, or corporates
will, and if the latter does, look for a
much weaker labor market,
>> much weaker labor market potentially as
the tariffs start to take bite. But
equity markets this morning shrugging
off Friday's jobs report starting to
rebound a little bit. They're looking
forward and potentially meaning the Fed
timeline to cut their first interest
rate cut potentially is going to be
September of this year. S&P 5 futures up
510 of a percent. NASDAQ futures up
7/10en of a percent this morning. Time
now for the morning calls. First up, we
have Morgan Stanley raising its price
target on Disney to $140, setting growth
in its experiences and streaming
businesses. That stock is up more than
1% in the pre-market. Next up, Bank of
America cutting its price target on
Colgate to $98, citing multiple
compression across the consumer goods
sector. And finally, City raising its
price target on Spotify to $780
after its third quarter guidance
exceeded expectations. Spotify jumping
in pre-market up 5%. Let's turn now back
to the Fed. President Trump says he
plans to announce a new Fed governor in
the coming days after the resignation of
Adriana Krueger. Former New York Fed
President Bill Dudley writing this
morning, quote, "Don't be fooled by the
drama in terms of how the Fed manages
the economy. It's mostly a tempest in a
teapot. Bill joins us now. All right,
Bill. I won't be distracted by all the
drama, but there's a lot of noise right
now coming out of Washington DC. When it
comes to who could potentially take this
role, do you think this administration
wants to put in a shadow Fed chair?
>> I don't know if that's their intention
or not, but obviously the next governor
appointment that seems to be on a faster
timeline than we thought will be
important because that person could be
end up being the next Fed chair. And so
people will pay particular attention to
who that person is and what their views
are.
>> So in that case, and I know as you
write, Bill, that you did see Waller's
desire to succeed Powell and Bowman's
thank you to Trump for appointing her as
part of the reason behind their
dissents. Bill, if I can just push you
on that because many people have looked
at this economy and said there are
reasons for a cut and Friday vindicated
that with weaker labor market data. Is
there an issue where we look at all
these disscents and say they are just
political or is there real evidence that
perhaps the Fed should be leaning
towards a cut?
>> Well, the Fed is leaning towards a cut.
If you go back and look at the June
summary of economic projections,
everybody sees the path of rates as is
going downward. It's just a question of
magnitude and timing. So, the degree of
disagreement within in the Fed is
actually, I think, dramatically
overstated because everybody thinks the
next direction it moves is down. just a
question of when to do it and how to
manage the inflation risk caused by the
higher tariffs.
>> So, Bill, the direction of disscent or
the amount of disscent is overstated.
So, too is the ability for this FOMC to
be swayed. What happens though if the
data becomes less reliable if a more
political figurehead is put in at the
BLS? Bill, you've been in the room
evaluating this data with colleagues.
How does that change in the Fed's
evaluation of said data if changes are
made at the Bureau of Labor Statistics?
Well, it depends if whether the changes
made at the Bureau of Labor Statistics
actually result in poor quality data or
not. Obviously, if the data, you know,
is rigged, uh, then the Federal Reserve
is going to have to go go to other
sources of data. Uh, there's a lot more
data available now than there was in the
past. You know, there's a lot of data
that you can scrape off the internet,
for example. So, I think that obviously
we want the BLS data to be excellent
quality and trusted and that's very
important. So, we have to keep an eye on
that. But the idea that the Fed would be
sort of unable to conduct monetary
policy because the BLS data was corrupt.
I don't think that's the case.
>> Well, going to the BLS data on Friday,
now the average three-month payroll gain
went from 150,000 before Friday's
release to now just 35,000. Going back
to those two denters, doesn't Governor
Waller have a point? The crack has
already emerged. Is the Fed going to be
behind the curve?
Well, I think the Fed probably will be
behind the curve because the tariffs
create so much uncertainty about what's
going to dominate, the risk of inflation
or the risk of growth. Everyone said the
tariffs are going to push up prices and
push down economic activity and the
question is which is going to
predominate. So, the fact that the Fed
might be late is because the tariff
policies created this tremendous
uncertainty about which force is going
to be dominant.
>> Jay Powell really honed in on the
unemployment rate last week talking
about the fact that's the main number
he's going to look at. We did see it
tick up to 4.2. 2%. What do you think
the line is for him where the
unemployment rate ticking to what would
get him really uncomfortable?
>> I think you know a couple more tents
would definitely get him uncomfortable
because then you start to think that the
whole labor market was starting to give
way and when that happens it can be a
self-fulfilling prophecy because it
scares people. They pull back on their
own their spending and that makes the
labor market still weaker. The important
part point that Paul made though is it's
not about the payroll employment
changes. It's basically how that
actually reflects in the unemployment
rate because what's basically happening
this year is the growth rate of labor
demand has fallen but the growth rate of
labor supply has also uh fallen
dramatically because of deportations and
the crackdown in immigration. So both
sides of the labor market are less
robust than they were before.
>> And the jobs that were added bill about
75 of them came from healthcare. The
cyclical parts of the economy really
were not adding jobs. the lack of breath
in Friday's data. Does that concern you
at all?
>> Well, I think I I mean I'm worried that
we're going to be in a sort of a
stagflationary environment where we're
going to have both higher prices and a
weaker economy. Uh and the question is
which one do you put more weight on? I
think the direction of rates is down. I
think the question is just, you know, at
what meeting does the Fed finally see
enough evidence to warrant a cut? As as
I said in the piece that I published in
Bloomberg Opinion, you know, there's not
that much disagreement about the Fed.
It's all about timing and magnitude.
It's not about direction.
>> Well, what happens if, Bill, we have
Adriana Cougler stepping down. So,
that's certainly a Trump appointment.
And then you get Chair Powell who
decides not to stay on as a governor
through 2028. In total, you add to that
both Bowman and Waller. That means four
Trump appointees on the FOMC. Does that
in aggregate just mean at the very
margin a more dovish shift to this Fed?
>> Oh, absolutely. I mean, I think, you
know, you when it's when it's a close
call in that kind of situation, uh, the
ties are going to go to the doves. Uh,
but at the end of the day, the economy
is going to drive the story. You know, I
think, you know, the the chairman can't
take the Fed wherever that he he or she
wants. It depends on how the economy is
motivating what's the right thing to do
in terms of monetary policy. The chair
has to convince the rest of the FOMC to
go along. Now, obviously, if you have
four governors all lined up on one side,
uh that that gives the chair quite a bit
of momentum to get his get his or her
her way, but you know, I think the
Federal Reserve presidents are going to
continue to vote their conscious in
terms of what's right for the for the
macro economy.
>> The markets this morning are rebounding
off of the lows on Friday following the
fact that everyone's starting to bake in
this idea of a September rate cut. But,
Bill, what if we get a hot CPI print?
What's going to happen then?
Well, I think it's too soon to say that
we're going to get a September rate cut.
I mean, we just saw how the market for
September has moved dramatically just in
the last week when, you know, Paul made
his remarks uh at the press conference,
people said, "Oh, they're not going to
cut in September." And then we got the
week in payroll and employment report on
Friday and everyone said, "Oh, they are
going to cut in September." So, it's a
long time between now and September. Uh,
you know, like I think the prospects are
pretty good that the Fed's going to cut
rates later this year. Whether it turns
out to be September or not really is
going to turn out to depend on the data.
Bill, to what degree could this just be
a post liberation day fallout, the jobs
data we've had over the past three
months, and something that might rebound
in August given more certainty on which
tariff levels are being set?
>> I think you're making a good point that
the tariffs have caused people to sort
of stand back in terms of business
hiring and and business investment
because they don't really know what the
landscape is. And as we get past August
1st and and and hopefully get more
clarity on what the tariff packages are
going to be country by country, uh that
presumably will make businesses more uh
willing to move forward in terms of
their investment and hiring plans. So it
certainly could go that way or it could
go that the higher tariffs are raising
prices. That's crimping real income and
that's affecting consumer spending and
that's leading to weakness in employment
that's going to motivate the Fed to cut
rates. We still don't know which way
which which direction is going to
predominate. What we do know though is
we know most of the rates as a handful
of countries potentially could get
better deals and better rates, but for
the most part, we do know the rates
going forward and they're going to take
effect this Thursday. How much time do
you think the Fed needs to see this work
through the economy?
>> Well, I think the Fed would like to see,
you know, a lot of time, a lot more
than, you know, 6 weeks to the next FOMC
meeting. I think they think it's
probably going to take, you know, six
months to get to see the full effects of
the tariffs because it takes quite a bit
of time between the the good landing on
US shores and it actually ending up
being sold in a in a in a in a
department store and other retail
establishment. So, I think the Fed
thinks it's going to be a slow process
and and Paul Basley said that at his
press conference last week.
>> Former New York Fed President Bill
Dudley, thank you so much for your time
this morning and you can catch his
opinion piece this morning in Bloomberg
Opinion. Danny, he says in the media the
Federal Reserve is under siege. I think
that's because of the truths we get a
lot from the president of the United
States. He says, "Don't be fooled by the
drama in terms of how the Fed manages
the economy. It's mostly a tempest in
the teapot."
>> He did though say that we could have a
more dovish shift. I mean, that's not a
complete unraveling of the Fed
independence. So, I think that's a
really important thing to signify, but
at least at the margin, if you have in
total four people who have been
appointed by Trump and one of them is
the Fed chair, having four people in the
column of cutting could sway things in
that direction. But this is maybe a Fed
to his point that needs more time and it
gets to this argument is the data we're
gonna get between now and September
enough to give them confidence as to
whether they should cut two CPI prints,
one more jobs report and then the Fed
meets. Coming up the program, Robert
Sakin of City on bracing for US growth
slowdown. Plus, Yah is back with us with
your morning movers and the high
expectations in the chip sector. You're
watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
Good morning. Welcome to Bloomberg
Surveillance. I'm Annie Hordern. Danny
Burgerer joining me today. Lisa and John
are off welldeserved uh vacations. It is
August. We do have US stocks uh clawing
back some of last week's losses,
especially after Friday's weaker than
expected jobs report. On top of that,
the massive revisions we saw then
prompted the president to actually fire
the BLS commissioner. S&P 5 futures this
morning up 6/10en of a percent. NASDAQ
futures up 8/10en of a percent. We are 1
hour away from the cash open. Let's get
you some morning movers with Yahira. Hey
yhara.
>> Hi Emry. Start with the latest company
to report results and that is on
semiconductor shares are falling nearly
5% here. Earnings matched analyst
estimates. But it was the revenue that
really underwhelmed falling 15% from a
year ago. A problem since this company
is involved in the hot chip space. So
this underscores how high the
expectations are for the companies in
that area. Next up we have an update on
these two companies. A deal has been
confirmed between Comcope and Amphenol.
Uh Comcope shares are rising 80%.
Amphenol is buying its broadband and
cable unit for 10.5 billion dollars
involving debt. The move underscores
underscores booming demand for AI data
centers which rely heavily on fiber
optic cables which are key parts of
Comscope's unit that Amphanol is now
buying. of course subject to regulatory
approval and investors are liking the
move by Tesla. Take a look at shares.
They are up 2 and a4%. The move by its
board approving a massive new award of
96 million shares for Elon Musk as it
tries to keep him locked in while his
original $50 billion pay package
continues to be tied up in courts. The
board also saying that retaining Elon
Musk is more important than ever before
and they are putting their money where
their mouth is. Emory.
>> Oh, they certainly are. That is about
$30 billion for Elon Musk. I think I
would my attention would focus back to
the automaker. If I was paid $30 billion
and I'd maybe ignore politics for a bit.
>> I mean, he did say that he's back to
sleeping in the office and working seven
days out of the week. Uh, hey, if that
got me that amount of money, I might
consider rolling out my uh my uh
mattress underneath my desk there, too.
>> Pretty incredible. All right, investors
gear up for a lighter week of data and
awaiting President Trump's picks for
both the next Fed governor and the BLS
commissioner. Bloomberg's Michael McKe
joins us now. All right, so Mike, who's
on the short list?
>> Uh, and Marie Hordern and Danny
Burgerer, I think, are leading the list
at this point. God, we have no idea at
this point what's happening. First,
let's get the uh economic data out of
the way. It is August as you mentioned
and this is an August kind of week for
August. We have very little data that's
going to influence anybody. Uh today we
get factory orders. Uh Tuesday we get
the ISM services number which could give
us uh maybe some bad feelings about the
service industry overall or maybe
reassure people. Then you go to Thursday
you get the jobless claims numbers. Now
we do have Cook Collins Daily Malomon
Bowman speaking this week. We know how
Mickey Bowman voted and how she feels.
We may get some indication from the
others if anybody was leaning towards if
not voting for a rate cut during July.
Uh but I think uh overall when you look
at these numbers uh you're thinking uh
that John and Lisa have a reason to take
this week off as far as data.
>> Yeah, lucky them. Mike, you're stuck
with us. The Fed is under siege and
it'll be just fine is what Bill Dudley
told Danny and myself just this hour.
What do you make of all the drama
happening in Washington DC? And let's
get back to some of those names. There
has to be a short list that's coming up
if the president says this week he plans
to announce a nominee a name to fill
Cougler's seat.
>> Well, it's uh it's the names that we
have heard so far. Basically, the
Kevin's Hasset and Wars and uh Scott
Bessant to the extent you think he would
want to give up Treasury and then uh
Chris Waller uh on the Fed already. Now
the thing for the president is and uh
the chart I have here suggests first
thing that we'll be looking for maybe is
a BLS commissioner. Uh and the president
uh has not been telling the truth about
what the numbers have shown and what the
BLS did. But uh the president can't make
a recess appointment to the Fed. So the
gamble he has is does Pal quit as
governor? If Pal stays on then he only
gets to appoint one person and he better
fill the Cougler seat with who he wants
to be chair. If uh Pal is going to quit,
which the chairman avoids talking about,
then he would have a chance to put
somebody else in. But the other thing
about uh waiting for Powell's decision
is that if you have to wait to see if he
resigns until the end of May, uh then
it's going to be months after that
before you get a chairman in place. So,
I think the odds are he'll probably look
towards getting someone named as soon as
possible. The question and and you know
this as well as anybody, Emory, is how
fast the Senate will move. They're out
right now for the month. They come back
to this uh big huge budget problem they
have. So maybe best case scenario, they
get to confirming somebody in October.
Uh then there's only one meeting in
December after that. So the president
doesn't get a whole lot of benefit out
of moving quickly this time, even if uh
that seems to be the prevailing view,
>> right? Don't hold your breath. The
Senate does not move expeditiously.
Michael McKe, thank you so much. We're
going to be sticking with the economy.
Investors boosting bets on a Fed rate
cut after Friday's jobs report showed
more weakness than expected. Robert
Sakin of City writes, "With the second
half of the year set to show weakening
activity, global growth is likely to
fall from around 2.8% last year to 2.5%
in 2025. We see global growth at 2.5% in
2026 as tariffs also bite into activity
next year." Robert joins us now. Before
we get into where growth is, can we have
your reaction to Friday's payrolls
report, especially since it prompted the
president of United States to fire the
BLS commissioner?
>> Yeah. No, this is a was a very
surprising report, I think, for the
entire analyst community uh in the sense
of the size of the revisions that we saw
really change the trajectory of the
labor market, at least where it stood at
the moment, relative to what we had been
thinking before the report. But that
being said, I think it very much aligns
with our view um which uh you outlined
there that we expect uh the second half
to show slower economic activity as the
tariffs start to bite more as they
influence business decisions more. Um
and I think maybe that's what we're
starting to see reflected in these labor
market figures. We're also seeing it in
a wider range of data. You're seeing a
slowdown in consumer spending. Um you're
seeing a slowdown in manufacturing
construction. So I think if you add it
all together, the economy is not falling
off a cliff, but this labor market data
is more consistent with the picture
we've been expecting um which is a slow
uh US economy, not a recessionary one,
but a slow one.
>> Is it a lot of noise or is there signal
in this potentially that even everyday
Americans do not trust data coming out
of Washington? Well, you know, I think
there's a there is a deep issue here
which has been percolating for some
time, which is especially after the
pandemic, we have seen the response
rates of these surveys fall
dramatically. Um, and I think that is
the major reason that we are seeing
these large revisions. And we had a
large set of revisions in this Friday's
report, but it's not the first time.
We've seen very large revisions um over
the last several years due to these low
response rates. And I do think it raises
a bigger issue as you said for everyday
Americans. They're looking at these
large number changes in the newspaper
and saying, "Well, why couldn't they get
the numbers right the first time?" Now,
it's a very very difficult exercise
measuring these data. Um, even the data
that we have now are not perfect in
terms of their design. There's a lot of
debate about how these surveys should be
done. Uh but I think it does highlight
that there has to be some way to get
these response rates higher so we get
higher quality economic data for a lot
of reasons including for the Fed um
having better real time data to assess
the economy.
>> Does all of this then also change the
ability of the Fed to use the short-term
and monthly data we get to make a
decision? Does it call into question
their ability to to decide for sure that
September should be a cut if the month's
data that we're going to be getting up
until then keeps getting revised? Yeah,
it it adds to the challenges the Fed
already has. I mean, the Fed is already
looking at the tariffs that are playing
through the economy um in a sort of
noisier, perhaps slower way than many
expected. You know, we've been expecting
the tariffs to push up US prices, lower
US growth. I think we're starting to see
more of that come through, but it's been
a slower, harder process. Um, and they
have to assess that in real time. And
so, if you're dealing with data that is
getting revised significantly, it
creates more challenges. I think what
you're going to see and what we do as
well is you have to lean on a broader
set of data. And so we have the official
data. We also have all sorts of
alternative indicators that we track. We
have a range of high frequency uh data
as well. Uh and you have to paint a
picture with all of those series. But
ultimately, yes, if you do have data
that's constantly revised, it makes it
hard to make policy in real time. It
>> it's a real debate to be had right now.
But Robert, it does feel like it's very
much so being overshadowed by the Trump
administration or Trump himself saying
that there is some partisan influence.
Kevin Hassid on American media moments
ago also saying that there have been
revisions that have been in the partisan
basis as well. So what happens if the
solution is something like giving it
more funding, but instead what changes
is just who's running the agency?
>> Yeah. And I think hopefully if it's just
a change in leadership, you're still
going to have the data um kind of run in
the same way in terms of the process
that it had before uh but maybe again
with a look at how do we improve the
quality of this data because if you look
at for example how the BLS or any other
the BEA any other economic organization
makes these data it's not the decision
of one person it's the it's a process
that involves statisticians and
surveyists and hundreds of of of staff
um And so it's really more of a
technical exercise building these
things, but underneath it, as I said, um
there is a deep issue of making these
data higher quality, which would serve
everyone uh better.
>> Let's get back to the trade story. Some
news coming out of burn Switzerland
ready to make more attractive trade
offer to the United States. If not,
they're facing a 39% tariff rate come
Thursday. The administration wants to
put the trade wars behind them. They
came out and they said, "These are the
rates. They're going to stick." How do
you think about the overall tariff rate
going forward when potentially some
countries still want to negotiate with
Washington?
>> Yeah, it's and it's this is another area
where it's been hard for us and and and
for the Fed and others to assess uh the
ultimate effects on the economy because
one of the most important variables is
where does the tariff rate ultimately
land? And we estimate with everything
that's been announced, we think the
effect of tariff rate is somewhere in
the neighborhood of 20% on US imports.
um it was about 2 and a half% before
President Trump took office. As you get
more sectoral tariffs coming into play
on things like pharmaceuticals, uh
electronics, that could go a bit higher.
And then it depends on where these deals
ultimately land. And I think what we've
seen from the administration is so far
from these trade deals, they have
largely gotten what they have wanted in
terms of what they're asking for. Um and
other countries have mostly been
accepting these relatively high tariff
rates uh to avoid much higher penalties
going forward. So I do think something
like Switzerland where the rate has been
39%. I do see scope there for
negotiations because that's a a very
high rate particularly compared to the
rest of Europe. But in terms of are we
going back to a world where countries
are able to negotiate significantly
below things like 15% uh baseline tariff
rates. Uh I think the administration
signaling that's unlikely,
>> right? 10 is the new 15. So last year
2.5% average tariff rate. You say this
year it's about 20%. 17.5%. Who's eating
that?
>> Yeah. And this has been the challenge in
terms of measuring the effects on the
economy is there's a lot of margins of
adjustments that can happen. How much is
going to get absorbed in terms of
exporter margins um importer margins in
terms of what goes to wholesalers,
retailers and then ultimately how much
gets passed on to the consumer. So far
we are still holding to the view that a
lot of this is going to get passed on to
the consumer especially with tariffs at
these levels. And when we look around
the world, we are not seeing a lot of
examples of exporters absorbing these
tariffs into their margins. You saw a a
few, you know, Japanese automakers are a
good example, but for the most part, it
seems that exporters are not absorbing
this and it's going to be shared between
uh companies they're importing and the
US consumer. And we think more of that
is in the pipeline in terms of how much
is going to get passed on to the
consumer in coming months.
>> Robert, thank you so much for your time
this morning. Robert Sakin of City.
Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning and for what's
going on in terms of Switzerland and the
trade war. Bloomberg brief Yahara joins
us now. Hey yhara. Hi Marie. As you
said, officials in Switzerland say
they're ready to make a more attractive
trade offer to the United States. This
coming after Swiss stocks dropped this
morning as traders had the first
opportunity to react to President Trump
unexpectedly slapping a 39% tariff on
the country. The number announced last
week leaves Switzerland with one of the
steepest levies in the world. Meanwhile,
US trade representative Jameson Greer
shared the US and China are quote
halfway there on a rare earth steel. A
key component of any future trade deals
between the two countries. His comments
come as the US China trade truce is set
to expire on August 12th, which is next
Tuesday. And Indian Prime Minister Modi
struck a defiant tone after President
Trump imposed a 25% tariff on his
country, urging the nation to buy local
goods. Modi also insisting the country
would continue to buy Russian oil with
the government, describing the India
Russia relationship as steady and
time-tested. The White House has
threatened more action if India
continues to purchase that oil. Gut
Bloomberg brief Amry, thanks so much,
Yahra. Up next on the program, we're
going to set you up for the day ahead.
Plus null Dixon of State Street on
navigating choppiness ahead in the
markets. You're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]
Clearly there has been an uncertainty
impact in the economy that has mattered
for companies when they think about the
labor demand numbers. I think for
consumers what that results in is a
labor market that is still supportive
right an unemployment rate of 4.2% 2%
wage growth that is still running above
underlying inflation even with some of
the tariff inflation impulses starting
to move in. So consumers are managing
this I think quite remarkably. Oh, the
markets are managing it quite remarkably
as well today. All the drama of Friday.
The market seems to be shrugging it off.
Starting to price in potentially the
timeline for the Fed to have that first
interest rate cut of this year being
brought up to September. You also have
treasuries erasing losses. Yields
declined to session lows. The 10-year
yield just under 4.2%
this morning. Now, we're counting you
down to the opening bell. Here's the
trading diary for the week ahead. 10
a.m. Eastern, we'll get durable goods.
On Tuesday, the trade balance and PMI
data and AMD results. We are still in
full swing of earnings. Wednesday, Fed
speak from Daily Cook and Collins, plus
Disney results. And on Thursday, a rate
decision from the Bank of England and
another round of jobless claims, plus
President Trump's new global tariffs
will take effect. And on that note,
let's go to Mike Shepard joining us down
in Washington, DC. Shep, it looks like
potentially even though the president
and his adviserss say that the tariff
rates are set, do you think we can get a
deal? Because Switzerland is hoping that
they can put something a little bit more
attractive in front of this Oval Office.
Oh, they were certainly caught off guard
by the very high rate really that
eyewatering level of 39% which was out
of step with many other US trading
partners. They would like to see that
addressed and something clearly went
wrong in the conversations between US
officials and their Swiss counterparts.
uh there was some sort of disconnect and
they're hope the Swiss are hoping to get
things back on track and try to get that
rate lowered so that it's more in step
with what other uh US uh trading
partners and counterparts have gotten
for example Japan and South Korea at a
15% level that's something they can work
with the European Union uh in that same
ballpark so we will have to see whether
the Swiss can come back with something
that the US is willing to accept and
certainly that 39% tariff rate sent a
shot across the Swiss bow there Emory.
>> Well yeah and it was up Mike of course
from even liberation day with 32%. So
Switzerland uh definitely having a tough
time. Shep thank you so much for all
your reporting this morning and for
joining us. Turning back to markets null
Dixon of State Street writing I think
markets should be prepared for continued
choppiness in the near term as investors
grapple with the juxaposition of slower
growth and increased goods inflation.
Null joins us now. So null, when it
comes to the labor market, we do know
that there is weaker data. We saw that
on Friday, but you're also still
concerned about what this all could
mean, the tariff regime for inflation.
How are you thinking about all of this
going into the next CPI report?
>> Well, thanks for having me. Well, I
think there's going to be uh continued
volatility as investors try to sort
through uh not only I think a a
weakening labor market uh but but an
increase in goods inflation. Um and I
think what that'll do is it'll make the
September meeting more of a 50/50 um
sort of uh outcome. Um and that'll cause
some volatility I think into markets. So
I think uh the the way we look at it is
not to panic but probably use it as an
opportunity to buy the dip.
>> At the start of the year, null, the
American exceptionalism trade was really
challenged. It started to come back as
we cared less about tariffs. But if
we're in an environment now where tariff
rates are going on, in the case of
Switzerland, higher than liberation day,
if the data is starting to weaken, if
there's some questions about Fed
independence and the data agencies
collecting them themselves, the
credibility of it, do we start yet again
to question American exceptionalism?
>> I don't think so. I think there was a
lot of uncertainty. uh we didn't really
know what the uh uh proposal was from
the Trump administration uh from a
nuance perspective. Now I think we have
some clarity. We have the one big
beautiful bill. We actually know what
the tariff rate uh effective at least
the reciprocal tariff rate probably
closer to 17%. So that'll give uh
businesses that have been on the
sidelines some confidence. Um I think we
know uh you know where where the Fed
stands regardless of of who who's at the
helm. I think uh you know the board they
have to make a certain decision just
based off the data. So we have some more
certainty and I think that presents an
opportunity uh for the for the US
economy to sort of be the cleanest dirty
shirt as we get into the second half.
>> Even so null you have someone like
Amazon in their earnings last week. Andy
Jasse saying, "We just don't know what's
going to happen moving forward. It's
hard to know where the tariffs are going
to settle." And this is one of the
companies that is moving forward with
their spending plans. What happens to
those that are more consumer oriented
that just don't know where things are
going to go from here? Null. Can we
really have beyond tech and the capital
expenditures that they're doing a real
revival of growth?
>> Well, I think when we think about the
consumer, we have a K-shaped economy. So
you have the more affluent, think about,
you know, financial conditions yearto
date have actually been loose. Household
net worth has actually picked up. It's
the bottom two quintile of income
earners that are suffering. But on
aggregate, consumption is still pretty
healthy. So I think those companies will
still be able to to have pretty decent
earnings as consumption resumes on an
aggregate level. Um, when I think about
the bottom two quintile, that's
something I think uh for the Fed to have
to reconcile where they'll ultimately
have to make a choice between higher
prices and growth prospects.
>> Well, when it comes to that bottom
quintile, the tariff rates going to hurt
this group the most?
>> Unfortunately, it will it will hurt that
group the most. Um, they're they're at a
position where they're not going to be
able to to handle those prices. Um,
however, you know, I think on an
aggregate perspective, um, I think, uh,
you know, consumers are pretty strong.
Um, and I think if if we get enough
pain, enough suffering, I think the Fed
will have no choice but to react
regardless of where inflation is.
>> You say September's a close call, but
given all of this we just discussed, do
you think there is more of a probability
the Fed cuts in September, or do you
think they still wait on the sidelines?
>> I think it's 5050. I know that's uh, you
know, probably a copout, but but it it
truly is 50/50 because if uh say core
inflation is CPI is at 3%. Um, it's
going to be really difficult uh for the
Fed to make a move. And keep in mind,
Pal referenced the unemployment rate,
which is still pretty tight um based on
any historical standard. So, I do think
it's still 50/50.
>> Well, we get one more jobs report before
the September Fed meeting and we get two
CPI reports. What are you most
>> What are you looking at as the most
important piece of data?
>> I think it's the the labor market. I
think uh if if we see a real meaningful
deterioration, a big jump in the
unemployment rate, I think that'll
transcend
um the the inflation data, but that's
not our base case. I think uh you know
the unemployment rate is likely to
remain tight. Um, and I think from our
perspective, uh, we think, uh, the the
inflation out outlook is going to be the
more, uh, closest thing to watch because
we do think the labor market, at least
as it relates to the unemployment rate,
will stay tight.
>> N, thanks so much for your time this
morning. Nol Dixon of Stay Street.
Anything but a sleepy August or a sleepy
summer. These next few data points are
going to be incredibly important going
into September. And one of the real
questions is which you were getting with
with null is the unemployment trend now
worrying enough that we set aside what
happens in inflation just based on the
market action yesterday where as you say
90% odds of a cut a 2-year yield which
plunged 27% the most in about 2 years it
would suggest that the market does
believe that this is a Fed that's
setting aside inflation for the labor
market.
>> But what happens if we get a hot CPI
print? Does it just shift all the other
way?
>> What happens if you have a new BLS chief
and you can't trust the data? A lot of
unknowns.
>> True. And potentially more deals coming
out coming down the pipe. Switzerland
says they're ready to make a more
attractive trade offer with the United
States. Coming up tomorrow, Jack Caffrey
of JP Morgan Asset Management, Rob Casey
of Signnum Global Adviserss, Data
Peterson of the Conference Board, and
Amanda Linham of Black Rockck. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance. Thank you for
watching with Danny Burgerer and myself.
Lisa will join us. She's back tomorrow.